the steady grind, this buy to dip,
there's no questioning in the price
action.
>> It's certainly a time when you want to
really think about your sector exposure.
There's a bit more weakness and rotation
and churn happening under the surface.
>> It feels like a meltup already. What
we're looking at here is a really,
really solid earnings backdrop for the
S&P 500 that we think persists in the
back half of the year and has legs to
run into 2026.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, the president stepping in.
>> We have a meeting with President Putin.
I think it's going to be a good meeting.
We're going to see what happens. And uh
I think President Putin will make peace.
I think President Zalinski will make
peace. We'll see if they can get along.
And if they can, it'll be great.
>> President Trump looking to strike a
ceasefire deal between Russia and
Ukraine as a more interventionist White
House looks for another slice of
corporate America. Evidence continues to
build that tariffs are beginning to
weigh on profit margins. Your stock
market just about holding on to record
highs. I'm glad you went there because
that was my takeaway from yesterday as
well. The idea of profit margin
compression and that's what we saw from
PPI that came in harder than expected
particularly with respect to services
versus CPI that came in somewhat weaker
than expected. Essentially, these aren't
getting passed along. This is the
backdrop to this geopolitical question
of how the United States is going to get
involved. It's who's paying for the
tariffs? How is this policy making its
way through the market? So far,
>> we've taken some heat out of rate cut
bets in the past 24 hours. We've seen
some push back, too. This from Mike
Gayen of Morgan Stanley. If Chairman Pal
wants to retain optionality while
awaiting August Labor and inflation
data, he will likely push back push back
against market pricing at Jackson Hole
next week.
>> This is going to be an interesting
meeting given the fact that there has
been so much political pressure. And you
wonder how many uh Fed share hopefuls
are going to show up to Jackson Hole
with their cowboy hats on looking to
make some statement and make some noise
about why this is a Fed that could rate
cut rates by some 50 basis points or
more. Look, this is the reason why
today's retail sales print actually has
new import. If you do have ongoing
spending by consumers and you have this
belief that there isn't really a problem
like we heard from Tom Barkin in the US
economy, then essentially why should the
Fed be cutting? Why should the Fed
indicate anything of a doubbish stin
other than just to plate the government,
which maybe isn't a great look?
>> Back to backto back all-time highs on
the S&P 500 just about squeezed out a
third one in yesterday's session.
Futures just about positive this
morning. Coming up this morning, this
hour, we'll catch up with Peter Chib of
Academy Securities ahead of Trump Putin
talks. George Pak of Signnum as the
government looks to take a stake in
Intel and Veronica Clark of City on why
the Fed will cut rates in September. We
begin this hour with our top story.
President Trump heading to Alaska to
meet with Russian President Vladimir
Putin. Amarie joins us now on the ground
from Anchorage. Amarie, a very early
Good morning.
>> Good morning, Jonathan. It's a very
early morning here in Anchorage, Alaska,
as we await President Trump and
President Putin's arrival. Now, you're
going to hear the term highstakes
meeting all day long, but it is a high
stakes meeting. And that is because at
most meetings when you have a summit of
this caliber, leaderto leader, months or
even years of diplomacy would have
happened that led to this moment. But
when it comes to Trump and Putin in
Anchorage and in this meeting in Alaska,
this is really the opener. The president
himself said yesterday there is a 25%
chance that this meeting is negative.
And he is left standing solo at a press
conference basically saying this more
than three-year war with Putin's
invasion of Ukraine is going to
continue. He says this meeting is a
feelout meeting where he can understand
what Putin wants, what kind of
concessions he is willing to give. His
own press secretary saying this is a
listening exercise and the president
lowering the bar once again this week
saying that the more important meeting
is going to be the second meeting and
that is really the goal of the president
when he comes to Alaska today. That is
going to be about trying to get Putin to
have this willingness to sit down with
President Vetoir Zalinski. The president
called it. He didn't love the term, but
he said it's not a bad term, divvying up
territory. Our reporting is that when
European leaders got on a call with the
president yesterday, he reassured them
that he would not talk about exact
territory that either of these two
countries could give up. So, the best
case scenario coming out of this meeting
is that there is an agreement in place,
maybe a short ceasefire, but an
agreement in place for a process to
begin to bring this war to an And Marie,
we all know there's a lot of daylight
between Putin and Zalinski. How much
daylight is there now between Trump and
Zalinski? How much has changed since the
end of February and that very
contentious meeting in the Oval?
>> I would say a lot has changed and really
one of the most striking images thus far
of the Trump administration was remember
when the Pope died and President Trump
was sitting oneon-one in the Vatican
with President Zalinski. That was really
a moment those two individuals broke
bread after that disastrous flare up in
the Oval Office. But Zalinsky is still
not at the table today. And that is
something that is very different,
strikingly different from the Biden
administration, who we should note did
not want to deal with Putin directly.
But the Biden administration used to say
nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine.
Zilinski is not here, but Trump
continues to play up that it has to be
Zalinski and Putin at the table. So he
still wants to include them. What I see
going on is basically what the president
has called in the past. He wants to be a
mediator when it comes to this conflict.
The Europeans are the one that really
take the Ukrainians and Zalinsk's issues
on board and they are the ones that are
the transmitters of that information to
the president, especially with the likes
of JD Vance having the meetings this
year. But I would say that that gap has
gotten a lot smaller since that February
meeting at the White House.
>> And Marie, looking forward to your
coverage. We'll catch up with AMH in the
next hour. Here's the view on Wall
Street this morning. Peter Cher of
Academy Securities writing this. We see
a few competing narratives, all of which
have some upside potential with some
downside risk. Pete, join us now for
more. Pete, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Betty Pal's view there. Let's just start
on Ukraine and Russia and what you think
we can achieve if anything this weekend.
>> You know, I think Anorie really hit the
nail on the head that typically two
leaders meet once everything's already
basically been decided. So this, you
know, there's a range of outcomes. You
know, there's some possibility they walk
away saying they have a deal that Europe
can't live with. There's some
possibility, I think probably more
likely, that Trump, you know, exerts
some pressure on Putin. We've started to
see a little bit of that, right? We've
starting now to find a way to get
weapons to Ukraine that are palatable to
the Trump administration, right? We sell
them to Europe. Europe then passes them
on to Ukraine. Um, we're talking about
the sanctions. We've threatened Russia,
India with secondary sanctions. So, this
could well be a meeting where Putin
finally gets the stick, right? It's been
a lot of carrot towards Putin. that I
think that's fairly likely that this
comes out maybe very tense and Trump for
the first time really puts a lot of
pressure on Putin to set up for this
next meeting because I think that's
what's going to be necessary and without
a lot of pressure on Putin he's in no
interest to end this war.
>> What's interesting to me is that all of
the analysts we speak to are pretty
pessimistic about what can actually get
accomplished in this meeting and yet
markets seem to be already pricing in
some sort of better outcome closer to
peace. You're seeing oil prices come
down. You're seeing European equities to
go up. Do you think that it's overly
optimistic in terms of how much that
base case has already been priced?
>> Yes and no. I think ultimately everyone
kind of sees whether it's at this
meeting there is a path to peace, right?
This war it's, you know, grinding on.
It's hurting both countries. It's the
Russian economy is in shambles. You
know, the number of Ukrainians dying,
the number of Russians dying are both
sad. I think Ukraine has more trouble
living with that than Russia. I think,
you know, Putin's done a very good job
from his perspective of, you know,
conscripting people from outside of Mos
Moscow and St. Petersburg so he doesn't
feel the political pressure to end. But
we're headed that direction. So I think
the market's probably right that unless
this turns into some sort of disaster.
If all it does is lead to a next
conference, I think that's fine. And I
think the market's probably reasonably
prepared that we go to that next meeting
by getting pressure on Putin. So I think
markets are seeing through this
particular meeting and looking forward
to two three months down the road when
maybe there is some sort of deal that's
reasonable. From a domestic perspective,
there's the risk that maybe people have
gotten overly enthusiastic about rate
cuts given the fact that the economic
data hasn't been so bad. I mean, yes,
you see non-farm payrolls suggest some
sort of downward revisions. We got PPI
yesterday that did suggest some tariff
impact at least on producer prices and
then we're expecting retail sales. How
much do you see that as a risk event for
markets?
>> I I think the economy is slower than
people think. I I think all those job
revisions, we're finally starting to
realize, hey, this economy is slower.
We're seeing AI, I think, disrupt some
hiring. We're seeing pockets of
inflation. I've been particularly
focused on electricity inflation. You're
seeing that kind of rise. The cost of
electricity is becoming an issue. I
think it's something we're all going to
be talking about next year, if not, you
know, sooner. So, I I feel there's
pressure on the consumer. I think the
global economy is slowing, right?
Everyone's trying to figure out what to
do with tariffs. And, you know, we're
all trying to look for these signs of
tariffs. I think we're basically we're
still in the early first inning on
tariffs, right? We've only just seen
them come in place. You know, suppliers
are now just talking to their import,
you know, importers and exporters are
trying to figure out who's bearing the
cost. It's going to take months, if not
quarters, maybe a full year before the
impacts are fully felt. But I think
you're starting to see those signs. I
think global economy is slowing. So, I
think the markets are a little bit
potentially in danger of getting too
comfortable that we get rate cuts for
good reasons, right? If we get rate
cuts, the economy is slowing, which I
think is happening, and the Fed has to
do it stubbornly because inflation won't
really come down. I think we have some
issues there and I think we could pull
back from markets
>> messaging Jackson Hall. Is it too early
to send some firm conclusions about what
the chairman thinks is happening?
>> You know, I think the chairman's going
to, you know, try and send some firm
conclusions. One thing that I like about
this administration, right, they've
picked 10, 15 candidates, right? So,
they have all sorts of very intelligent
people, respected, all walks of life,
all saying rate cuts. So, you're not if
it's kind of interesting if he just
already named one person as the
potential chair, that's all we'd be
listening is what are you going to do?
Now, we're listening to this whole slew
of people. I think we should have cut in
July and certainly had we known the June
numbers we maybe should have. So I think
we I think we're going to get those I
still think three maybe even four cuts
this year. Certainly two for sure are
coming and it's going to be because the
economy is slowing just enough.
>> You mentioned the process the optics of
the process are credible. Is the process
credible? There is a difference.
>> You know I I I don't pay enough
attention to what this is all going to
look like, how it's going to wind its
way through the system. I think we are
definitely going to have a Fed that
works more closely with the Treasury
Department and you know aka than the
administration. They are going to be
more thoughtful I think on things like
that and some of it would make sense. I
think we should figure out you know
what's the Fed buying? What does the Fed
have on the balance sheet? Where are we
trying to issue? There could be a lot
more coordination. I think there could
be things done. There are things that
make me nervous about that as well. like
you do not want policies that and my
concern will be that we do get these
cuts and the 10ear doesn't respond or
the 30-year in particular because there
is a bigger risk premium right the risk
premium starts getting built in is what
is our data like is our data accurate or
not where do we fit in on our data you
know is the Fed going to respond in a
traditional banking sense or are they
going to be too conservative so I think
that bears the brunt of it so if you see
30 years stay stubborn what is the new
Fed share going to do about that are
they going to implement some sort of
operation twist I think there's
opportunities and I just want to circle
back when we talk about the economy and
tariffs that I'm you know a little bit
concerned on the the bright side to me
and I think what's going to propel the
economy forward potentially is kind of
this what we're calling prosec or
production for security where the Trump
administration really focuses on
national production for national
security we saw the deal with MP now
Intel's you know in the news about that
sort of potential I see this as a you
know really right up the president's
alley right we're going to support
biioarma you know pharma biotech chips
rare earth and critical minerals and
we're going to do it through investment
and deregulation
rather than handouts or subsidies. So I
I think that's interesting and that
could propel. So that to me is the
positive that's offsetting I think
what's going to become increasing a drag
from tariffs.
>> You use the word coordination more
people are using the word intervention.
You see it as a positive the intel
potential intel deal that we've been
talking about overnight.
>> Yeah. So you know I think we all forgot
we were talking about sovereign wealth
funds before and we mentioned this last
time I was on. So the Department of
Defense found 400 million kind of lying
around per se to invest in um MP which
makes um you know magnets and they also
helped raise $1.1 billion of financing
probably at attractive rates because of
the government's intervention and that
to me is the first sort of step towards
this kind of idea of a sovereign wealth
fund. Um the department of defense only
has certain amounts of pocket so it's
going to have to come from other areas
but this is investment and I like the
fact that a I've got to admit full
disclosure I own Intel. I've liked Intel
for a while. I think it's going to be a
part of what we
>> No wonder you're happy based on the last
24 hours.
>> Yeah. So, it's been a good 24 hours for
the chur household. But, um, you know, I
still have to work, but nothing. Um,
having said that, but I I what I like
here is the American taxpayer will
prosper, right? If this is the right
decision to grow chips, do things like
that. The American citizens are going to
own this share, right? It's not Trump
owns it. It's the US citizen. I think
that's an interesting way to do this and
let us participate in some of what I
think will be this growth around
national production for national
security. And even then, I I'm also
making sure you I think Abby even
simplified it too much, right? Security
is good in terms of job security, right?
All of a sudden, if you're working at
these companies where the government's
really focused and that your product is
there for national security, you have a
more job security. You're feeling more
comfortable. I think that lets you spend
and behave and be a little bit more
enjoyable of life. And those are things
I think that could see the real positive
coming out from this sort of thing.
>> Pete, it's good to see you. Appreciate
the take. Peter there of Academy
Securities. what we heard overnight,
Lisa, actually more conventional than
what we heard at the start of the week
with regards to Nvidia.
>> We've seen a precedent for this with
Ford, with GM, with what the uh the
United States did with the auto industry
after the financial crisis. We haven't
seen just random levies placed on uh
certain key industries uh in order to
sell to certain places. So, that's
actually more unconventional than this
type of more interventionist approach
with some key industries in the United
States.
>> We've got a lot to cover this morning,
including retail sales. Lisa talked
about it. We'll get that data at 8:30
Eastern time. With an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief,
here's Yahihara Arnard. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump is
traveling to Anchorage, Alaska this
morning for a face-to-face meeting with
Russian President Vladimir Putin. Trump
is hoping to broker a ceasefire between
Russia and Ukraine, but tamp down
expectations ahead of the meeting. He
hopes this one could pave the way for a
second meeting, potentially including
Ukrainian President Zalinski.
Meanwhile, traders are pairing back Fed
rate cut bets. Investors now see about
90% odds the Fed lowers rates at its
September meeting. That's down from near
certainty before yesterday's hotter than
expected PPI data. Markets are looking
to US retail sales data due out at 8:30
a.m. Eastern, which John, you just said
if it shows the strain consumer, it
could reinforce the odds of a cut. And
as you guys are talking about with
Peter, the Trump administration is
considering taking a stake in Intel.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
the move could support the expansion of
the chipmaker US manufacturing,
especially its planned factory hub in
Ohio. It comes just days after President
Trump met with Intel CEO Lip Bhutan and
marks the administration's latest
intervention in a key industry. That's
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, taking a stake in corporate
America.
>> This is a very unique solution. Allows
Nvidia to expand into China. It can make
Nvidia chips the uh bellweather for
Chinese technology and then the US
taxpayer gets a share of that.
>> The White House would like a share of
something else. We'll talk about it
next. George Pak of Signnip joins us in
just a moment live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Three days of gains on the S&P 500 just
and only just in yesterday's session.
This morning positive once again by just
0.05%.
And this event is this morning taking a
stake in corporate America.
>> This is a very unique solution. Allows
Nvidia to expand into China. It can make
Nvidia chips the uh bellweather for
Chinese technology and then the US
taxpayer gets a share of that. We could
see it in other industries over time. I
think, you know, right now, uh, this is
unique, but you now now that we have the
model and the the beta test, why not
expand it?
>> Well, here's the latest move. Intel
shares trading higher in the pre-market.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that the Trump administration is
considering taking a stake in the
company. The news coming just days after
President Trump met with Intel CEO Lip
Bhutan at the White House. Joining us
now is Bloomberg's Tom McKenzie. Tom,
welcome to the program. Can you share
with us what you think the strategy is
here?
>> John, on one level, this is an
idiosyncratic story about Intel and its
struggles around cost cutting and the
challenges and the pressure on the CEO,
Lit Bhutan, who seems to be back in
favor now with the Trump administration.
And the other level, of course, and you
and Lisa were discussing this with your
guest before the break. Is this the
starting line in terms of an outline
around an industrial policy now that's
starting to come together for this Trump
administration? Clearly Intel and Ohio
and the plans there are in focus for the
domestic political piece of this, but
the national security story that you and
Lisa have been working through is also
of course central. It's all very well
having Nvidia being able to come out
with the designs for the most
cuttingedge AI accelerators, but if
you're having to turn to Taiwan and TSMC
to crunch those out and actually produce
them, there's a question mark there.
Yes, TSMC is investing in the US market.
Those foundaries will be there. But if
you don't have that super foundry in
Ohio, the American play around that
production piece because Intel is endto-
end from design to production. There's a
big question mark there for a company
that of course has already received
those subsidies. It also reminds us that
this Trump administration is to some
extent taking a leaf out of China's book
to compete and stay ahead of China.
>> Intel up by 3.6%. Tom enjoyed your
coverage this morning. Thank you, sir.
Tom McKenzie out of London. To Tom's
point, I think is such an important
point. Tom spent time over in China. he
will know that we spent a long long time
waiting for China to look more like the
west and now all of a sudden the west is
taking on Chinese characteristics.
>> Central planning seems to be ruling the
day and we see that in a whole host of
different manners and this raises a
question is this beginning to usher in a
new era where that is the status quo not
necessarily the sort of free market
capitalism that was uh accepted maybe 20
years ago.
>> Well, let's get to that with George
Pollock of Signnum Global. George,
welcome to the program. Sir, we know the
president's transactional. We know he
likes to make a deal. Do you see a
coherent industrial policy coming
together here?
>> Yeah, I really do and thank you for
having me on. I think with the
president, what you're seeing right now
is that American capitalism, at least
the version of it that we've had over
time, is really leaving people behind is
leaving American voters, especially
those more aligned with the MAGA
movement, frustrated and feeling that
for all their efforts, for all their
work, they're not seeing the economic
benefits. So the president sees that by
being more aggressive with corporations
and especially big tech and bigger
corporations, he can get an American
government win, for example, up to $7.5
billion from this Nvidia and AMD deal.
And at the same time, he can show the
American populace he's taking on these
corporations and pushing them to ensure
that American jobs are safe, American
industry is safe, and developing. And I
think that's the idea of the president
and that's the deal with this
administration is going for. We've been
trying to figure out who's paying for
the tariffs and a lot of people have
pointed to companies and it kind of goes
into this conversation of what the new
policy is and the sort of
interventionist uh approach. We're
seeing significant costs on the part of
companies from Ford and GM to Apple when
it comes to tariffs, but then they're
getting tax cuts. Is this just basically
shifting around uh the chestnuts to see
where the ball lands or is this actually
materially shifting the way that
companies do business in a way that does
generate more growth?
I think that's the question that we ask
here today. But I think for the regular
American voter, especially the voter
who's more sympathetic to the president
and more sympathetic to the MAGA
movement, they don't see the tariffs as
something that exposing to US voters or
US buyers. What they see the tariffs as
is recalibrating the market in a way
that benefits the American economy that
brings home domestic production and
shifts the focus from investment
overseas to investment within America
which is what the president campaigned
on and which is what advisers like Steve
Bannon have been so vocal about. So
while from a business perspective it was
really just shifting shifting things
around and you know putting new hiding
new places or developing new places to
have on the books but for the typical
American voter especially those aligned
with MAGA this is a great opportunity to
push back on countries that have been
taking advantage of us.
>> So hold on a second George are you
saying that this is more visual than
actual when it comes to shifting things
around? I mean, even some of the
production in the United States, we've
seen companies gussy up plans that they
already had put out there, say, two
years ago, when it comes to bringing
jobs back to the US. I mean, how much is
this just simply uh window dressing
versus really a fundamental shift in the
approach to business?
>> I think for the president, this
represents a fundamental shift and a
fundamental difference in how the
American economy and American capitalism
operates. Absolutely. You've seen tech
companies, medical companies, pharma
companies open lines of investment and
foreign direct investment into the US.
But at the same time, we only have three
and a half more years, which will of
this administration. Well, that may seem
like a long time for these companies who
are deciding on long-term capex
investments. Three and a half years
isn't that long. So, I think for now,
the way to look at this is as a shift
for this administration, but I don't I
don't think we can say this is a
long-term shift. George, can we talk
about the potential shift politically
here in the United States of America?
I've always been worried about the
pendulum swinging from one extreme to
the other. How much time do Republicans
have to demonstrate that their approach
will work before we see a shift in the
electorate to the far left?
I think that's a really good question,
but I I think the issue is we kind of
are having a horseshoe moment in
American politics where we're having the
far left and the far right kind of unite
around the idea that American that big
corporations have been taking advantage
of America, taking advantage of American
voters and focusing investment overseas
and not focusing on developing a
domestic industrial base or I guess more
so degrading the American industrial
base we used to have. So I think at
least from a political perspective this
is part of that long shift and as we see
with the rise of AOC or Mandani in New
York City I think there's always hope
that perhaps we turn back and we swer we
go back down the middle of the street
but I think we're seeing a more
fundamental shift and a more aggressive
shift towards yes American capitalism
had gave us innovation gave us
opportunity but now American capitalism
isn't working for the typical American
voter. It isn't giving the voter the
American dream.
>> George, appreciate your take. Thank you,
sir. George Pollock there of Signnum.
Lisa, something you've been talking
about now for months and months.
>> This is the reason why it's unlikely
that the tariffs are going to get taken
off anytime soon. I mean, yes, he's
saying this is only four years. How easy
is it going to be to undo some of these
policies if they're a bringing revenue
into the United States and b creating
the perception of the United States uh
taking a piece of the pie of the
corporate dominance that we've seen over
the past number of decades? Never mind
too big to fail, too big to remove. That
could be the case in the years to come,
that's for sure. Equities at the moment
on the S&P 500 just about positive so
far. Up next, we'll catch up with Eddie
Fishman of Columbia University with
President Trump and Vladimir Putin set
to meet face to face on American soil.
Plus, Danny Burgerer with your morning
movers as a chipmaker flashes a warning
for China. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Heading
[Music]
towards a second week of gains on the
S&P 500. Equity futures just about
positive this morning by a tenth of 1%.
The Nasdaq almost unchanged down by 0.15
with three hours until the opening bell.
Let's get you some morning movers with
Danny Ber. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Here's one of the tech names
that we've been discussing all morning.
It is Intel after that Bloomberg scoop
that the government is reportedly in
talks to maybe take a stake in the
company. Just wanted to note it rallied
more than 7% yesterday and the rally
continues at some pace this morning.
We're up by more than 3 and a.5% that
stake perhaps also going to help build
out some of their Ohio manufacturing
hub. Elsewhere we got 13 F filings
overnight. This is when hedge funds and
other institutional investors give
filings of how much are invested in
different companies. Berkshire Hathaway
a $1.6 billion investment in United
Health. Always important to know with
these that they are backward-looking.
It's from the second quarter. But this
company has been so belleaguered crisis
after crisis. Poor earnings. Shares are
down nearly 15% year to date and they
rally a whole lot this morning 12.6%.
Finally, we got earnings from Applied
Materials after the bell yesterday. It
was an ugly one. It was their forecast
that disappointed. Shares down almost
15%. The CEO saying one, he's getting
less orders from Chinese customers. Two,
getting approvals for licenses to export
their technology to China has been held
up and delayed and three, the large
customers seem to be putting off orders
given uncertainty around trade and the
economy. John,
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Danny in the next hour on our radar
this morning. President Donald Trump
tempering expectations ahead of talks
with Russian President Vladimir Putin as
the US pushes for peace in Ukraine. The
two leaders set to meet face tof face in
Alaska at 3 p.m. Eastern time.
>> A really striking meeting that usually
would take months and months of
diplomacy ahead of and a real question
of what are the potential deliverables?
Is it just a meeting with Zilinski that
includes Vladimir Putin? Is there really
a renewed prospect of peace? It's
interesting that markets are expecting
something uh with respect to easing of
relations between Ukraine and Russia.
And every analyst we speak to say we
don't see how that could possibly happen
given who has leverage and how different
their goals really are.
>> Do we get the carrot or the stick? How
do you sufficiently incentivize
President Putin this weekend?
>> You talk about providing weapons
potentially to Ukraine. You talk about
economic sanctions. You talk about uh
potential NATO alliance. All things that
President Trump maybe isn't going to do.
So a real question here. Does Vladimir
Putin want to get on the same page given
the Russian dream of what one Russia is
versus the Ukrainian dream of
independence? And that ultimately is
just fundamentally at odds and that's
what we keep hearing.
>> We'll come back to that conversation in
just a moment. Our next story, the Trump
administration considering taking a
stake in Intel sources telling us here
at Bloomberg a potential deal would help
shore up Intel's planned factory hub in
Ohio. You know, Pete Sher said that this
was actually a positive development and
a lot of people uh would see remnants of
what happened in 2009 but in a very
different way with the auto sector.
There has been a precedent of the United
States directly investing in different
sectors. There has been the idea of
giving them free loans or sort of
handouts as some people would say in
order to uh incentivize production. This
is another approach taking an actual
stake in something. We don't have any
details, but a lot of people are hopeful
that this actually is taking a page from
China's book in some ways to have a more
coherent industrial policy and help the
United States with domestic uh chip
production.
>> This industry is super important. We all
know that. And if you break it down and
just think about what's been developing
there for the last decade, last several
years, design and build. You've got the
fabulous model, think Nvidia design. You
got the foundry model, think TSMC build.
And then you've got these integrated
players that don't know where to go,
which is Intel. And there has been talk,
action even over the last year to split
off those two things. Design, build.
Clearly, this administration wants them
to focus on building here in the United
States of America. Makes a ton of sense
to go in this direction. You need
government support to make it happen
because apparently right now the market
isn't supporting it sufficiently.
>> If the United States wants to be able to
do it, it is going to have to take a
very long time. And that is what people
have realized. And the reason why other
companies, maybe rivals of Intel,
haven't gotten on the board to create
those boundaries. They aren't very
profitable. They take some 10 years to
get up and running. Intel has a head
start. So, the United States wants to
get in on that. And ultimately, a lot of
people are rallying behind the shares,
hoping that this actually will provide
them some upside too.
>> Up again this morning by 3% in the
pre-market. Let's talk about China. The
economy slowing down across the board in
July. Factory activity, investment,
retail sales data all disappointing with
production of factories and mines rising
at the slowest rate since November.
>> How much is this because of the tariffs?
How much is this just structurally? This
is an economy that's been in a tough
spot and an administration, the CC uh
the CCMP not necessarily taking some of
the stimulative actions that a lot of
people had expected because they were
waiting to see what the tariffs and the
ramifications were were going to be.
Real question for markets this morning,
does this sort of prod some of the
policy makers over in China to inject
some real stimulus? Is there going to be
government back buying of housing, which
is one rumor that's been out there, or
is this going to keep them on hold to
see how much more pain is coming down
the pike from some of these tariffs?
>> They might have to eat their own over
capacity. Re some stories. I'm sure you
read the same ones about the amount of
competition domestically now that's
leading to price cuts and margins are
starting to suffer and you're seeing
that domestic Chinese companies overcap
all over the place in that economy.
>> Yeah. And how do you remedy that? They
talked about maybe preventing Chinese
automakers from cutting prices too much.
How do you how do you sort of engineer
this in this perfect way? Markets are a
complicated beast that actually are the
most efficient way of doing this and
we've seen that again and again. When
you try to control it centrally, it gets
kind of dicey.
>> Thank you for saying that.
>> Central planning is not straightforward.
Just throwing that out there. That's
very based on the week we've had so far.
I think that that's a wise
>> not straightforward. All right, we'll
move on. Let's turn back to our top
story. President Trump looking to strike
a deal between Russia and Ukraine.
>> We have a meeting with President Putin.
I think it's going to be a good meeting.
We're going to see what happens and uh I
think President Putin will make peace. I
think President Zullinsky will make
peace. We'll see if they can get along
and if they can, it'll be great.
>> Eddie Fishman of Columbia University
writing the following quote. Even small
symbolic concessions from Trump could
undermine the broader campaign and
fracture allies unity, a scenario that
Europe fears. Eddie joins us around the
table. Eddie, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Great to see you, too.
>> I want to throw the question at you that
Lisa and I were discussing just moments
ago. How do we sufficiently incentivize
President Putin this weekend?
>> I think Putin needs to understand that
Trump is actually serious when he says
he wants peace because I think right now
Putin believes that time is on his side.
So he actually sees these negotiations
not as an end to peace but that but
actually as a means to allow himself to
continue the war without facing
significant pressure. There was momentum
building in Washington last week for
more sanctions on Russia. Trump himself
said that there were going to be very
severe sanctions if Putin didn't agree
to a ceasefire about by last Friday.
That date came and went. So Putin
already has kind of gotten a victory by
delaying that. There's also momentum to
provide some more military assistance to
Ukraine. So I think Putin just by
getting Trump in the room by sort of
convincing him that he's serious. He
knows that Trump wants that Nobel Peace
Prize and will stay in that negotiation
and by prevent real pressure from coming
down upon
>> I'd love to know what you think about
this framing because I hear this a lot.
President Putin is driven by territorial
ambition, not economic prosperity. He
does not respond to economic sanctions.
How do you change that?
>> See, I disagree with that fundamentally.
He clearly wants to achieve his
maximalist objectives, which is to truly
annex these four territories of Ukraine
that he's formerly annexed but doesn't
yet control. But what happens if the
Russian economy is in a massive crisis?
Right? Even this year, just as we are
right now, the Russian economy is in
stagflation. They're going to grow at
probably at most by 1% this year. and
they've got inflation well above 10%. So
the question is what if you could get
them into a significant recession and if
you had inflation at 20%. Which you know
we saw in the leadup to uh the nuclear
deal with Iran. US sanctions can do this
if we actually are willing to go for the
jugular which in the case of Russia is
its oil sales.
>> There's also this question of Russia's
leverage and that has to do with also a
nuclear deal that I know has been in the
works with the United States and a
question of what happens with their
weapons and what happens on an ongoing
basis. Do you think that somehow
Vladimir Putin has gotten more leverage
than people had expected heading into
this meeting?
>> Yeah, I think something to play very
close attention to is that Putin and the
Russian media have come into this
meeting saying that it's not just about
Ukraine. They're also going to talk
about cooperation in the Arctic. They
may talk about restarting the New START
treaty, which um you know, Russia
stopped participating in in 2023, which
is this arms control treaty. And of
course, they've been talking about these
potential economic deals. To me,
something that raised my eyebrows is
that Scott Besson apparently is going to
be part of the delegation as well as the
Russian finance minister. That's kind of
unusual if you're thinking about this as
a a ceasefire uh negotiation. And so
what Putin seeks to gain there is to
really kind of shift the the discussion
away from Ukraine and persuade Trump
there that there's a bigger picture here
and that he should actually normalize
US-Russian relations irrespective of
what happens in Ukraine.
>> If Trump entertains this idea, how much
of a wedge does that put between the
United States and Europe?
>> A huge wedge. And look, I just got back
last night from Helsinki. I was there
for the past week meeting with various
uh European officials, European
diplomats, and they're petrified of this
because they know that as soon as
there's even a small sign that the US is
backing off, let's say Trump agrees to
some symbolic sanctions easing, Putin
himself is sanctioned, and actually just
a couple days ago, Treasury had to issue
a license to allow Putin to travel to
Alaska. Um, let's say Trump says, "Okay,
we're going to give you a little bit of
sanctions easing in exchange for some
peruncter Russian concessions." The
Europeans are going to be panicked and
they're going to wonder, "What can we do
to prevent sort of the lid from falling
off of this pressure campaign that we
have painstakingly built together over
the last 3 years?"
>> There has been some criticism of the
Europeans in their approach by this
administration. Have the Europeans done
enough? What have they been doing
recently?
>> Yeah, so I'm I'm glad you asked this
because I I heard Secretary Besson um on
the show a couple days ago saying that
the Europeans need to step up. Well,
just a few weeks ago, the Europeans did
the most dramatic sanctions package that
I have seen since the beginning of the
war. They unilaterally lowered the price
cap on Russian oil from $60 a barrel to
$47.60.
Kind of a strange number. It's 15% below
the market price. They did that by
themselves. This was supposed to be a G7
decision, but they went ahead and did it
themselves. They also imposed secondary
sanctions. These are not sanctions on
Russia, but actually on Russia's trading
partners. They did two Chinese banks
were sanctioned by the EU. And I think
most importantly, they actually
sanctioned the second biggest oil
refinery in India, uh, Nara Energy. So
they are already directly targeting
Chinese and Russian businesses that are
in bed with Russia. And that's not
something that the US has been willing
to do so far.
>> What's left? What would you like to see
happen?
>> So I would like to see the US join these
sanctions with the EU because ultimately
because of the the dollar is still the
global reserve currency. When the US is
on board, the sanctions are much more
powerful than if it's just the EU. But
there's more that needs to be done. And
I think sanctioning other Indian
refineries, sanctioning Chinese
refineries and more banks and ultimately
providing a clear roadmap for how these
purchasers of Russian oil like China and
India can gradually bring down their
purchases over time.
>> You've done an amazing job in your
latest book and just generally through
your uh your research in understanding
how much the global relationships are
changing depending on what happens in
this meeting. How much does that
indicate who is against who? whether
this is a multi-polar world while this
is or whether this is everyone go it
alone.
>> Look, um I I think that there's also
maybe a third option here where Trump
may be reorienting US relationships
toward our historical adversaries. We
saw just last week Trump agree to allow
Nvidia and AMD to sell uh semiconductors
to China so long as they pay uh 15% to
the US government. That's a giant
concession to China, right? And it's a
and it's a huge sort of uh uh example of
how we are warming our relationship with
China on this key area of technology
competition. If we also start seeing
some easing of sanctions on Russia,
which I want to be clear, it's not my
base case scenario, but it's still
possible that it happens today, then you
could start saying that Trump actually
is kind of pivoting toward Russia and
China and the Europeans are out left in
the cold.
>> Eddie, appreciate your take and your
opinion. Thank you, sir. Eddie Fisherman
there of Columbia University and author
of Choke Points. Let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara.
Hey, Yhierra.
>> Hi, John. China's economy slowed across
the board in July with factory activity,
investment, and retail sales all
disappointing. Production at Chinese
factories and mines rose at the slowest
rate since November, suggesting
President Trump's tariffs are making a
sizable impact on that economy. Retail
sales also slowed to its slowest growth
pace this year.
Meanwhile, we are seeing shares of
United Health surging more than 12% in
the pre-market following news that
Warren Buffett's Bergkshire Hathaway
took a 1.6 billion stake in the company.
According to a regulatory filing,
Bergkshire bought 5 million shares of
the health insurer in the last quarter.
The same filing shows Buffett sold his
entire holding in T-Mobile and trim
stakes in Apple and Bank of America. And
President Trump's tariffs are taking a
toll on the chocolate market. Swiss
chocolier lint says it may shift
production of its famous gold wrapped
Easter bunnies to the US to avoid import
tariffs. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the plan would involve
spending as much as $10 million to move
production of its hollow chocolate
figures from Germany to the US. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Lisa nodding along as
you were telling us that story.
>> I thought this was fascinating.
>> I'm partial to a limp bunny myself. Once
a year.
>> Once a year. This is so you. That is
such a you comment. Oh my goodness. But
it has to be.
>> I like the mini%
>> But do you like milk?
>> I prefer the mini ones
>> because it's smaller. So you don't have
to feel as guilty.
>> No, I think they're just I don't know.
There's something about the taste and
the flavor profile of a smaller
chocolate.
>> Do you think it'll be a different flavor
profile made in New Jersey?
>> Possibly.
>> I don't know. We'll see.
>> Talk more about that another time. Up
next on the program taking some heat out
of Ray Cup Bets.
>> We think they're meaningfully away from
Target and even further away in the
other direction than they were before
the pandemic. A conversation up next
with Veronica Clark of City from New
York City. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Stocks are positive this morning, up by
0.1% on the S&P 500. Down about a tenth
on the Nasdaq. In the bond market,
yields bouncing off multi-month lows at
the front end of the curve following
PPI. Yields this morning back lower by
not even a basis point. The 2-year
settling at around 370 at 37275
under this morning taking some heat out
of rate cut bets. There doesn't need to
be a huge pick up in inflation, but the
point that we've been making is that
even X of the tariff shock, the core PC,
headline PC probably stuck around 2 and
a.5%. And that's the concern that we
have for Fed policy. We think they're
meaningfully away from target and even
further away in the other direction than
they were before the pandemic. We're
being hit by so many supply shocks right
now that it makes forecasting very
difficult.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Investors walking back Fed rate cut bets
with PPI data surging at its fastest
rate in some 3 years. Veronica Clark of
City writing, "We expect limited signs
of persistent inflation and a weakening
labor market will have Fed officials
cutting by 25 basis points in September
and each meeting after to get to 3%."
Veronica joins us now for more.
Veronica, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. That kind of
echoes what we heard from Secretary
Besson. Let's get down 150. What is it
about the inflation data that you think
won't derail this effort? Yeah, I mean
the July inflation data was interesting.
We finally got some firmer data, not
downside surprises. Um, and when you dug
into the details, yeah, it wasn't
actually in goods prices, which
obviously people were looking for the
signs of that tariff pass through. Um,
it was in services, which sounds
concerning, but then you dig it a level
deeper. Um, and in both CPI and PPI,
it's just oneoff services that are are
particularly strong. Dental services and
CPI. Um, PPI yesterday was portfolio
management fees. We know that moves with
asset prices. So I don't think there is
any sign yet of the broad-based kind of
concerning inflation for the fact
>> the key word there is yet.
>> Why won't that change in the months to
come?
>> Yeah, I think the the biggest test of
the tariff pass through dynamics is
really going to be August and September
data. Um you know based on what we know
about when tariff rates started to rise
based on you know there was in the
import price data some you know
producers maybe lowered their prices
temporarily. We see that in goods like
apparel. Um that's kind of ended though
um as people draw down inventories.
Maybe it's August, September is that
time frame when, okay, maybe you do have
to start raising prices. You've held off
as long as you can. Um, we know that's
when some prices for things like
clothing start to rise for a new season.
Um, if we still don't see it in those
months, if it is more limited, I wonder
if that tells us that the consumer
really just can't handle these big price
increases right now. That is not
persistent inflation.
>> I have Steve Rashido of Missouo in my
mind. Stop taking this out and this out
to create the number that you actually
want. Because ultimately, if it comes in
hot, if it barks like a dog, it acts
like a dog, it wags its tail like a dog,
it's a dog. So, how much can you really
say portfolio management costs ignore
that asset prices don't matter when the
wealth effect is real? When you've got
retail sales that are expected to come
in hot, I mean, how long can you keep
being cute about the components?
>> No. And we don't want to pick and
choose. And of course, portfolio
management fees were weaker earlier in
the year when we had equities falling.
Um, but I mean I think it is it does
speak to we're not seeing the big
broad-based kind of price pressures yet.
Um, and I think this is just a very
different fundamental demand backdrop
than the kind of inflation we saw a
couple years ago. Um, so yeah, it's not
the ideal number of course, but there's
nothing really blaring red that would
stay persistent in this data. Do you
expect any kind of messaging at Jackson
Hole that could really indicate how the
Fed is going to deal with both the
political pressure but also this data
that is open to interpretation?
>> Yeah, I think we we've heard still
enough division among Fed officials.
There are still even this week some
officials who are describing the labor
market as solid, you know, worried about
some of these more persistent inflation
risks. Um, so I think PAL does kind of
have to walk a line here. You can't be
so dobbish that we've, you know, heard
from officials like Waller and whatnot.
Um, but I think it's they have enough
information. If they had had those
revisions, you know, to the July with
the July employment report ahead of the
July meeting, I think they probably
would have been cutting at that meeting.
Um, so he'll probably feel a little bit
more comfortable guiding towards, yeah,
we are still expecting cuts and that
could be on the table for the fall.
>> Is there sufficient two-way risk in the
upcoming information CPI early next
month, payrolls the first week of
September?
>> Yeah. Yeah, we'll learn a lot more. Um
it is that August inflation print that
we're going to get before the September
meeting. I wonder if we could see more
inflation impact there. Um it is I think
the August employment report that
matters the most though.
>> You and the team seem to be putting a
lot of emphasis on employment and that
side of your mandate. So let's sit on
this topic a little bit more.
>> We had Bank of America sat in your seat
yesterday and they're making the case
that ultimately what you're seeing right
now is not a cyclical turn. It's a
structural shift and you can have a step
down in payrolls growth without an
increase in slack. you and a team are
taking completely the other side of the
debate. So, please explain, tell us.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think the main debate
among everyone watching the labor market
data right now is is this, you know,
some weakening demand underlying this or
is this just an immigration story? We've
had a slowing in population growth and
that break even pace of payroll, job
growth is lower, I'm sure. Um, but I
think in the details of the data, there
are a lot of worrying things that this
is more than just immigration. This is a
weak demand story. And I would look to,
you know, a lot of the decline in
participation has been discouraged
workers. You give up looking for work
because you're not finding a job. That's
probably not immigration. Um, a big
increase in unemployment has come from
college educated workers. Those are
probably people not being crowded out by
recent immigrants. Um, and then in July,
the big increase in unemployment, which,
you know, it it stayed at that 4.2%. Um,
but it was new labor market entrance.
That's probably not new immigrants now.
probably students looking for work and
not finding jobs. Um, so there are
enough signs that regardless of
immigration, there is weakening
happening.
>> You know, I'm just trying to wrap my
head around the idea of pegging some
sort of Fed move to data that has been
undermined in terms of the integrity of
it by the US government where the head
of the BLS has just been fired and there
have been such massive revisions that
you have a growing number of economists
saying that if those numbers had come
out in June and July, this Fed would
have already been cutting rates. How do
you sort of square that circle?
>> Yeah, I mean there is of course a lot of
attention and rightfully so on the
official data. Um but the revisions I
think made a lot of sense to a lot of
people, me included. Um we had seen a
lot of evidence of weakening labor
market before those revisions and it was
payrolls that was the outlier. Um so it
does make you know some sense I think.
Um I do trust the official data of
course um just as much as I did a couple
months ago. Um which admittedly is maybe
a bit less than six years ago. I think
the pandemic is still just skewing a lot
of this, you know, the data, the
seasonal adjustment, some of the
collections. Um, it was just a weird
data event that happened and it's going
to be weird for a while. Um, but I do
trust the the official data that we're
getting, but you do have to take all the
data, you know, form your view on all
the data that we have available to us.
>> So, let's get to the data that we're
going to get in 90 minutes time. How
where do you place retail sales?
>> Yeah, it is an important one. Um we've
seen this dynamic this year in good
spending where maybe there was some
frontloading and that was boosting sales
temporarily. Um services spending in the
quarterly data and the monthly data have
been much softer. Um retail sales I
think a couple important things to note.
You know if it is a soft demand story
that is limiting the ability of
companies to raise prices. Maybe we see
that in softer spending. Um but retail
sales are nominal also. So, it's
important to keep in mind as we're
getting into the fall, we could have
some bigger price increases and that
could make nominal retail sales when
they come out look stronger. Um, but
what we really care about, of course, is
is real spending. Um, I think this
number today will will be fine. A
healthy enough number.
>> It's good to see you as always. Thanks
for dropping by. Thank you very much,
Veronica Clark there of City. It's not
just the data really. We're hearing it
from certain parts of corporate America.
Chipotle, Sweet Green, McDonald's, I
think Carver earlier this week. Next
week's a pretty big week for that. I
think Home Depot, Target, and Walmart on
deck.
>> Yeah. how much they see demand either
accelerating or plateauing in response
to some of the uncertainty with respect
to tariffs also their hiring pictures. I
am curious about whether you see a
similar trend in some of the retailers
that we've seen in some of the tech uh
sector which has been cutbacks in key
areas as a result of certain AI and some
of the technological advancements there.
So very curious how they're implementing
some of those aspects as well.
>> Sam Row out yesterday on X with the
reminder of the cheat guide for Walmart.
If the numbers are good, the economyy's
bad. If the numbers are bad, the economy
is bad.
>> Yeah. I don't wait.
Okay. That's what people used to say. I
don't think it's that anymore because
Walmart is now a broader selection of
goods. They now have a lot more high-end
goods. They cater to a larger swath of
companies.
>> Well said. That stock market is a little
bit lower this morning. We're down by
about a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ 100.
Lots of retailers reporting next week.
We'll give you a preview later in the
program. Up next, we'll catch up with
Dan Greenhouse of Solace Alternative
Asset Management. We speak to Ashley
Davis of S3 Group, the former White
House economic adviser Mark Slain, and
Ed Huseni of Colombia Thread Needle. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance is
up next.
[Music]
We haven't seen this full pass through
of inflation to consumers. The picture
looks a lot better than at least the
most recent 3 months.
>> There's a lot that could still happen on
the inflation front that's ahead of us
>> over the coming months in 2025.
It could be more volatile, could be more
choppy. The economy I think is going to
surprise everybody in the next few
months.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> The second hour of Bloomberg Savannah
starts right now live from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Good morning
to you all. Your scores look like this.
Equity futures on the S&P bouncing by a
tenth of 1% adding to three days of
gains on the S&P 500 and just about
another all-time high at a close in
yesterday's session. Coming up later,
Lisa's been talking about it. It's 90
minutes away. Retail sales in America.
Another read on the US consumer.
>> Yeah. How well are US consumers
absorbing some of the goods that have
been tariffed? Or have they? Right. When
do we actually get a true read on what
consumer sentiment looks like post
tariffs? We've already seen the
inflation, consumer inflation not come
in particularly hot. What the inflation
that a lot of producers are feeling
though is. Can companies keep absorbing
those margins? keep absorbing those
tariffs on their margins. Will consumers
feel the benefit of it or do they start
accepting some of these higher prices if
those retail sales do come in robustly?
>> A theme over the last few days talking
to you just there's some real two-way
risk here going into September. It can
break either way. So, do you want to
commit to what you're going to do in
September and beyond when you get
together at Jackson Hole for an FOMC
party in Jackson Hole, Wyoming?
>> Yeah, the answer is no. I mean, you
could say, well, we'll see. I mean, but
the answer is why would you pre-commit
to something when you have real
two-sided risk and frankly you've got a
really split committee. More interesting
is how are they measuring things? And
actually, President Trump has
spotlighted how important data
collection is with the BLS. And this is
actually key for a Federal Reserve
that's examining how the labor market is
changing. Is this a secular or
structural shift as you've been talking
about in a significant way? Secular or a
cyclical shift that we're seeing in some
of the data. Does it have to do with
immigration? Does it have to do with AI?
That is going to be really important to
understand how we even count some of
this data that some people have thrown
some hair on.
>> It's a lot of doubt and the market keeps
feeding on it. The mount up continues.
Alltime highs coming into Friday.
Equities up again by a tenth of 1%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Dan Greenhouse of Solus Alternative
Asset Management as markets inch higher.
Ashley Davis of S3 Group as President
Trump and Vladimir Putin prepare for
their meeting in Alaska. And Fed chair
candidate, the former economic adviser
to President George W. Bush will speak
to Mark Sumlin a little bit later this
morning. We begin this hour with stocks
higher as investors await another round
of economic data. Dan Greenhouse of
Solus Alternative Asset Management
writing, "Yesterday's PPI number
certainly complicates the story, but I
still believe the Fed is more likely
than not to reduce rates at its
September meeting." Dan joins us now for
more. Dan, good morning.
>> Good morning to you guys.
>> Good to see you, sir. You usually take a
constructive view on things. So, what's
good about things right now?
>> Well, listen, a lot of things are good
right now. the the labor market is is
slowing but is still holding in there.
And I don't think as Veronica Clark
noted at the end of the last hour that
that there there she has not seen and I
don't think most of us has seen the type
of broad-based increase in goods
inflation that that was predicted three
six months ago when the tariff debate
really started. And then on top of that
probably the most important thing from
an investor standpoint is just the AI
story remains unimpeded right now. The
capex story the demand etc etc. And
while there's surely going to be an end
to all this, from a market standpoint,
it's been driving risk assets higher.
And again, I don't I haven't seen
anything that complicates that story.
>> Well, let's talk about what we've heard
from companies so far on the consumer
side, from Sweet Green, from Chipotle,
from McDonald's. Just a bit of push back
here about what's happening. Do you not
see that demand side destruction that
the Veronica Clarks, the cities of this
world are worried about?
>> Uh, no, I don't see it. I mean, there
are obviously isolated pockets. Uh,
there are some tariff worries. A lot of
companies talked about tariffs in the
back half of the year being more of an
issue than they were in the front half
of the year, but I always fall back on
my go-to, which is the comments from
Visa and Mastercard and Capital One, all
of whom said as of the last earnings
report that things were just fine. And I
think it was Visa who said they saw no
change in spending patterns across
income cohorts. And why that matters is
because you can point to Sweet Green or
Chipotle or Tapestry and and these are
isolated uh companies and isolated
industries whereas obviously the card
companies have exposure to everybody's
spending across sectors across uh income
cohorts. And so I think they provide a
not I think they do provide a more
holistic view of consumer behavior. And
so I take them just a little bit higher
so to speak in the pecking order than
than a random uh retailer. So, we're all
chocolate bunnies and cake here this
morning and yesterday uh on Bloomberg
surveillance and we were talking about
can you have your cake and eat it too?
Can you have a resilient consumer while
also not having the inflation that would
prevent the Fed from being able to
materially cut rates? Don't you see a
conflict in that picture?
>> Well, leaving the rates aside in terms
of the resilient consumer, the labor
market again slowing but no layoffs as
we see from the weekly jobs claims data
is the the best evidence of it. But I
think it was Birkenstock yesterday who
reported that they passed through price
increases in July.
>> How have they got pricing power over
there?
>> Because I'm buying some Birkenstocks for
Christmas. Is that what you're doing?
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> Is that what you're actually going to do
to me later this year?
>> And I expect you to
as a card carrying member of the
Grateful Dead and Fish community. The
Birkenstock demand is unimpeded.
>> You guys are killing me, I suppose.
>> But yeah, so they I think it was
Birkenstock who said we passed through
price increases and saw no push back
whatsoever. Uh and there are a couple of
companies that have alluded to that.
Although to repeat, numerous companies
have said the back half of the year is
going to be when when these effects are
felt. Now with respect to the Federal
Reserve, uh listen, I think the labor
market is clearly weakening. If you look
at private payroll growth, for instance,
it has slowed down fairly dramatically
from call it the 6 months before the
last one or two. And so when I talk
about rate reductions from from the
economic side of the discussion, I'm not
talking about two or 300 basis points.
There's people running around saying
they should cut a 100 basis points at
the next meeting. I'm not on that train.
What I'm saying is things are slowing
down. Tariffs are I can argue uh if we
have enough time tariffs are actually
deflationary, but that's a separate
story. And so if the Fed were to tweak
rates lower one, two, three times
between now and and early next year or
the middle of next year, is that so bad?
Is that going to lead to an inflationary
spiral from a demandled uh standpoint? I
don't think so. Now, from an investor
standpoint, basically all of what we're
talking about is positive for risk
assets on balance. um that now again
this is with the caveat that we're going
through an economic experiment the likes
of which we have not seen in decades and
so really having a handle on how the
risk environment uh landscape unfolds
over the next 6 months there are a lot
of people who speak authoritatively on
this I would push back on every one of
them we have no idea how this is going
to happen and unfold but but my my
working assumption my expected value
standpoint is that on balance that this
is pretty positive
>> deflationary you said it now we've got
some time what makes it deflationary
>> well you're crimping after tax incomes,
you're curbing demand. Uh to the extent
that this is passed through at all, uh
now now again we have to start from the
premise that tariffled price increases
are not inflation, they are a tax. And
so if we separate that out, higher taxes
on consumers crimp after tax incomes.
And there's more to the conversation,
but in a nutshell, that's it. And so I
would actually argue what and I've said
this a few times on the show. I think by
the by the end of this year you're going
to have the Veronica Clarks of the world
uh to a lesser degree the Dan Green
houses but the economists of the world
coming on Bloomberg TV particularly
surveillance and saying sure PCE is 33.
Sure CPI is 35 but if we X out the
tariff categories and I know you have
Steve Rashido in your mind saying can
you really X out a bunch of stuff? And
we can talk about that, but I imagine
people are going to say, "Exing."
>> Well, at risk of intervening yourself,
let's talk about it.
>> Sure,
>> I'm going to do it in the future.
>> Why should you just x that stuff out?
>> Because tariffs are not inflation. And I
know that in the context of this
conversation, we're measuring them
through the prism of inflation, the CPI,
the PC, etc. But they're not really,
it's not demandled inflation. It's a
tax. And and it we hearken back to the
uh the oil spikes in the 70s. I think
this is a good analogy. At the time
influ oil goes up, inflation goes up,
the Fed tightens policy, makes
everything worse. We have since learned,
duh, that tightening policy in the face
of an oilled price increase, bad idea.
And so now you talk about looking
through oil price spikes to the extent
that they're not demandled, there's a
supply shock or we bomb an nuclear
facility in Iran. I think that the
Federal Reserve could probably apply
that same rationale to tariffs.
>> Hold on a second. I wonder if we're
thinking about this all wrong. And I
wonder if that because if you look at
what's actually happened, companies have
absorbed a lot of the tariff
ramification on their margins. Ooh,
scary. You should say, why are stocks
going higher? They should really be
reflecting this. Then you look at the
other side of the balance sheet and
they're getting tax cuts that almost
perfectly offset some of those costs
from tariffs. So, isn't this just again
a shell game? Taking things from one to
here and there and then you're not
really actually changing anything. So,
we're kind of making these expectations
built on a fiction.
>> Uh, to the extent that I followed what
you said and there was a lot in there, I
I think yes, there's there's there's uh
a lot of truth in what you just said.
Um, I I'll leave the the academic and
the tax argument to the economists. From
an investor standpoint, I have to what's
right or what's wrong or a shell game is
not my my number one concern. My number
one concern is what do I do with the
cards that are being dealt to me? And in
this environment I think on balance
again it favors the risk landscape. Now
one I'm sure there's people watching
going what is this guy talking about
tariffs or not tariffs obviously all
else equal worse than the outcome
leaving worse than the alternative
leaving aside the political goal of what
tariffs are trying to um uh engender in
terms of a reshoring. You talked about
bunnies before. Um from a risk
standpoint the consumer is still doing
fine. The AI story is still doing fine.
And so from a risk standpoint, I think
that favors on balance still higher risk
assets. I would add people keep talking
about is it not reflected in the stock
market. This is not a particularly
screamingly broad rally. The stock
market's up called 10% for the year.
Only about 200 stocks or so are doing
better than that. You'd like to see that
number higher. The stock market's at an
all-time high. The median stock is down
10 12% from the high. Very few stocks 50
60 are also at all-time highs. So it's
not I would argue under the surface a
lot of this is being reflected.
>> So how would this sort of uh go into a
market call market weight equal weight?
How much you looking at small caps? How
much are you looking at stocks over
credit? What's sort of the risk adjusted
valuation prospect here?
>> Uh well listen we're we pick individual
stocks. So I I'll leave that to the to
the Sevita submanians of the world to
overweight or underweight. We're trying
to find companies that do well in this
type of environment. I we own uh we own
an emerging market telecom company. We
own a couple of oil servicing or waste
management type companies um with
pricing power with demand etc etc.
That's what you're trying to find. Um in
terms of overweing underweaiting uh
listen again I I defer to Sevita or Adam
Parker or the people that that do that
more than I do these days. But I'll just
fall back on the AI story is still
working. And it's not and we know this
already. It's not just uh the the Nvidas
of the world. It's the G Vernovas and
the Eatens and you can even go down from
from tier two to tier three like the
Amphanols and the companies that make
components that go into the data center
racks etc etc. This is affecting broad
numbers of the markets and I just to
that point I would add when you look at
the best performers in the S&P year to
date you've got to go down I forget the
number like 35 stocks in terms of best
performers before you find a mag 7 name
in Nvidia. All the best performing names
are uh some are AI derivatives but they
are not the Mag 7.
>> Dan, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by.
>> Always my pleasure, guys. Thank you.
>> That was very easy for me. Appreciate
it. Green house.
>> Easy for me, too.
>> Once management, it's great when he
drops by and just interviews himself,
right?
>> And you could say this time, but I can
talk about it later.
>> Yeah, exactly. Okay. Well, have a time.
>> I take the time to watch the segment
before me so I know what I'm saying.
>> I noticed that. Credit to you.
>> Yeah, thank you.
>> You saw that I can't get expressions
correct.
>> There we go. What? Ducks versus dogs.
>> Ducks. Dogs. They sound similar.
>> You quack like a duck, you know.
>> Yeah, but like you bark like
>> I didn't bring that up. You brought
that.
>> You wag you wag a dog. It actually works
perfectly.
>> It did. I liked it. It's nice. If you
missed that, didn't miss anything. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your blooming brief.
Here's Yhierra. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump is
traveling to Anchorage, Alaska this
morning for a face-to-face meeting with
Russian President Vladimir Putin. It's
Putin's first trip to the US since 2015
when he attended the UN General Assembly
here in New York. The two leaders will
meet at 3 p.m. Eastern and then
delegations from both countries will
continue talks. Meanwhile, gold is
headed for a weekly loss as traders
dialed back their bets on Fed rate cuts
at the FOMC September meeting. The slide
followed PPI inflation coming in at a
three-year high. The precious metal has
climbed by more than a quarter this year
with the bulk of those gains occurring
in the first four months. And Apple is
restoring the blood oxygen tracking
feature on its smartwatch in the US
following a year'sl long legal fight.
The feature was removed at the end of
2023 due to a patent infringement
lawsuit filed by the medical technology
company Maximo and a US customs
injunction. This hits at a key time for
Apple, which is expected to unveil new
Apple Watch models next month. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Up next on the program,
discussing a ceasefire.
>> We have a meeting with President Putin.
I think it's going to be a good meeting.
We're going to see what happens. And uh
I think President Putin will make peace.
I think President Zullinsky will make
peace. We'll see if they can get along.
Ashley Davis of S3 Group joins us next
as President Putin touches down on
American soil and the President of the
United States makes his way to Alaska.
[Music]
Three days of gains on the S&P 500
heading towards a second week of gains.
equity features this morning adding just
a little bit more weight to the rally up
by 0.14% so far under surveillance this
morning discussing a ceasefire
we have a meeting with President Putin I
think it's going to be a good meeting
but the more important meeting will be
the second meeting that we're having
we're going to have a meeting with
President Putin President Zilinski
myself and maybe we'll bring some of the
European leaders along maybe not it's uh
I don't know that it's going to be very
important we're going to see what
happens and uh I I think President Putin
will make peace. I think President
Zalinski will make peace. We'll see if
they can get along.
>> So, here's the latest so far. President
Trump and Russian President Vladimir
Putin said to meet in Anchorage to
discuss ending the war in Ukraine. Putin
praising Trump ahead of today's meeting
and said he's willing to start work on a
new arms control treaty. Blindberg's
Amarie has the latest on the ground.
Morning Amarie.
>> Good morning, John. When it comes to
what President Putin wants out of this
meeting, it's not even just about what's
going on in terms of his invasion of
Ukraine. He wants to restart the
bilateral cooperation between Washington
and Moscow. That's what you just
mentioned when it comes to arms control,
which that treaty, by the way, the new
start expires February of next year. He
also wants to talk about economic
cooperation. We are just south of the
Arctic Circle, some place where you can,
you know, have these critical minerals,
potentially cooperation there. And then
most notably, obviously, the Russian
president is going to be pushing for
sanctions relief. And I think it's quite
telling who the Kremlin is bringing
along. They're bringing along their
finance minister, Anton Selinoff, on top
of the foreign policy individuals that
have really surrounded President Putin
for for years. And President Trump just
sitting on Air Force One waiting for the
president to arrive is his team. And
alongside the likes of Marco Rubio, who
you would of course expect to be there,
his secretary of state and national
security adviser, the president is also
bringing along commerce secretary Howard
Lutnik and Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessett. Now Scott Besson spoke to you
and I this week, Jonathan, and he said
that they are prepared for either
direction, sanctions relief if the
meeting goes well or to double down on
sanctions if the meeting does not go
well. really signaling that those
secondary tariffs that the
administration has put on Russian crude
going to India that will kickstart at
the end of the month if there's not an
agreement potentially that could mean
this administration is willing to take
the step to go to Russia's biggest
purchaser and that's China. So I think
it's really telling who is also
accompanying these two leaders besides
the usual suspects in the foreign policy
sphere.
>> Amarie looking forward to your
reporting. We'll touch base with Amarie
a little bit later on this morning as
Air Force One prepares to take off and
head to Alaska in the next hour or so.
Joining us now to discuss, Ashley Davis
of S3 Group and the former assistant in
the Department of Homeland Security.
Ashley, welcome to the program. Can you
help frame this moment for us? The
Russian president touching down on
American soil. What's the best we can
hope for this weekend?
>> Well, first of all, I think I need to be
on next time with Dan. He seems really
fun and so hopefully we can get together
next time. But good morning to
everybody. I think this is a uh huge day
for not just the president but also for
people around the world and obviously
Ukraine. The the number one issue that
the president wants to deal with, our
president wants to deal with right now
is obviously making sure that people
stop dying. This is three and a half
years. This is hundreds of thousands of
people that have lost their lives
because of this war. You know, there's a
lot of rhetoric right now that the
president doesn't really know what he's
asking for, etc., et, etc. I know from
my White House days, there is absolutely
no way that the conversations between
both teams have not been very serious
before they would ever let either of
their principles join today. I think
what's what we're going to watch is
there's probably going to be some sort
of announcement with with the ceasefire
and then we'll see there is thought talk
that maybe Zillinsky actually comes to
Alaska and they have a meeting in person
there after that. Obviously, I think
that is something um that would be a
fantastic outcome, but probably a little
bit riskier. The the final thing I want
to say is, you know, this is a and
Amarie was just saying it a little bit
earlier, this is not just about the
Ukraine war. What the president has
done, I think, very well is put the
tariffs on Brazil, put the tariffs on
India, about that actually surround.
And so this has come to a point where
it's not just about weapons and what
we're selling to Ukraine, what Europe's
selling to Ukraine, what they're using
on behalf of um, you know, to fight the
war against Putin. I think this is
really about kind of the economic
sanctions that are that that the
president really pushed and is limiting
him to do. Is that your interpretation,
Ashley, of who is going with President
Trump, the Scott Bsence and the Howard
Lutnik, or is it catering to kind of the
Vladimir Putin view of this meeting,
which is a broader relationship between
Russia and the United States that
includes the Arctic Circle that includes
arms deals.
>> I think there's and also critical
minerals are going to be absolutely a
major part of this. But I actually think
if you see the tipping point in this in
these negotiations and again we're going
to see what happens today. A lot can
happen. But the tipping point really
happened when when our US Senate number
one wanted to put secondary sanctions on
Russia and we're ready to go. But also
how the president did not back down in
India who is an ally of ours and Brazil
and other major countries that that um
buy Russia's oil and gas. And so I
actually think the economic tipping
point was was what really brought
everybody together.
>> So you think that actually the economic
pain that Russia is feeling has been
enough of a stick so far to bring
Vladimir Putin truly to the negotiating
table? So right now we're seeing markets
price in some easing of the tensions
between uh Russia and Ukraine. You think
that this is warranted? It sounds like
based on the leadup to this, who's
attending and uh the the tone so far
from both sides. Is that right?
Absolutely. And I'm sure that Russia is
getting huge pressure from India, which
is one of their biggest, you know, they
buy them one of the most from India buys
one of the most from oil and gas from
Russia. So, I'm sure India is like,
"Come on, we've got to get to the table
here because you're crushing us." So,
you know, whatever you think about
President Trump or not, there he did put
this broader plan together that's trying
to squeeze Putin. Obviously, he came
into office saying that he was going to
uh stop this war on day one. I think he
realized very quickly that he wasn't
able to trust President Putin. Um, you
know, I lived through the days when
George Bush said he could see President
Putin's soul through his eyes. You know,
I think there's been lots of presidents
that thought you could trust this man at
the beginning, but you really can't. And
so, they were able to put this bubble
around him, squeezing him, which I think
is the economic impact. Ashley, as you
know, and just to build on this thread,
President Trump is very willing to take
an unconventional approach to break the
status quo, to do things that other
politicians won't do. That can be a
superpower sometimes. Ashley, I wonder
what you think he can do this time that
President Biden was unwilling to do.
What would you like to see happen here?
Well, and listen, I don't want to I'm a
big believer that you don't criticize
what you don't know. And and none of us
on right now or who's watching were in
the room really when the president Biden
was having these discussions and his
team. But what president did President
Trump did do that Biden did not do, yes,
we put sanctions on Russia. Congress put
sanctions on Russia. However, they did
not do it through this new mechanism
which is the tariffs which is actually
not just impacting Russia but it's
impacting Russia's customers and so I
think which again goes back to
especially India and Brazil. So and and
obviously China as well. So I think that
is the different mechanism that he used.
But listen, he tried to use traditional
um military and traditional State
Department diplomacy to stop it just
like Joe Biden did and it didn't work.
>> Ashley, appreciate your time. Dan's no
good. Just throwing that out there. All
right. He'll have us drinking before
8:00. No good. Ashley Davis, appreciate
it. Of SS Group.
>> Yeah. And making mistakes all all around
the corner and uh definitely saying
things we shouldn't say. So
>> potentially. Yeah. You want nothing to
do with that. Anyway, look, this is here
where we are. We're going into the
weekend and if you want some kind of
ceasefire at some point, you've got to
talk and this is the opportunity to have
that discussion.
>> Yeah, the range of interpretations
really is remarkable. Some people saying
it's unclear where the leverage is.
Other people saying like what we just
heard from Ashley that actually all of
this noise that we've seen so far with
India and Brazil that people have been
attributing to with Brazil, the
political backdrop with India, some
questions around uh their relationship
with China. All of these things have
been geared into pegging Russia into a
corner. I mean, it just sort of shows
how difficult it is to really pinpoint
what's going on, what's being used as
what, and who has the leverage here.
>> Territorial ambition versus the prospect
of better economic prosperity. What's
going to drive the Russian president
this weekend?
>> Great question. At a point when this is
something more fundamental to Russian
identity than it is necessarily economic
growth.
>> Precisely. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with the Fed chair candidate,
the former economic adviser to President
George W. Bush, Mark Summerland, plus
Danny with your morning movers following
disappointing earnings from a major chip
maker.
Equities firmer by two ten of 1% on the
S&P 500. Three days of gains coming into
Friday. Looking at the prospect of a
second week of gains on the S&P on the
NASDAQ 100 just about unchanged this
morning, down by not even a tenth. We're
negative0.04%.
Turn to the bond market. 2-year,
10-year, 30-year, just freshening things
up in yesterday's session. Multi-month
lows on 2-year yields at one point.
Delayed reaction to PPI and then yields
started to bounce by five or six basis
points. The 2-year settling down to
37296.
But PPI just to some extent, maybe a
small extent, but to some extent shaking
up that rate cut theory into September.
>> You saw some of the headline numbers
coming at the fastest going back to
2022. So really some really shocking
numbers. You look under the hood though
and people say, "Eh, oneoffs and they
don't go into core PCE. Ignore." And
guess what? Companies are absorbing it.
And oh, it's also the fact that asset
prices are high. You put all those
things together, people shrugged it off.
Today is going to be a real test though
with retail sales. Retail sales at 8:30
Eastern time. Then it's on to Jackson
Hole next week and then after that early
September a payrolls report the 5th I
believe. Week after that CPI week after
that you've got the Federal Reserve
meeting. Two hours away from the cash
open. Let's deal with the here and now.
Your morning movers with Danny Burgerer.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Overnight we got 13F filings.
A peak into the second quarter for what
various funds did. These are some of
Berkshire Hathaway's picks that we
learned from the filings. You can see
all of them are rallying beat. United
Health up nearly 11%. New Cor Leonard
the home builder those shares at four
and a third percent got to say a lot of
people buying into United Health also
Ter's firm as well as Scion Asset
Management that's uh Michael Bur's firm
buying them another pick we got from
Michael Bur in the 13Fs was Lululemon a
very unloved share year to date down
almost 50% so the fact that they piled
into that a new ad for Scion Asset
Management means those shares up 1.8%.
Finally, after the bell yesterday, we
also got earnings from applied
materials. It was seen as very tepid
forecast. The CEO saying that large
buyers are holding off on purchases just
given a lot of the uncertainty, be it
trade, be it the economy, but also noted
that China was a real weak spot. For
one, China's not buying as much and
they're having a difficult time getting
at pace export license agreements to
sell out to China. So, those shares down
13%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Big move there. More
from Danny in the next hour. on a radar
this morning. The president, the Trump
administration in talks with Intel to
take the US government's stake, a stake
in the company. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg that a deal would bolster
Intel's US footprint by shoring up plans
for a factory hub in Ohio.
>> And this comes after a pretty tense
relationship between President Trump and
the new CEO. They had a meeting. This is
evidently reportedly by Bloomberg what
was discussed in that meeting.
Regardless of what you think of all the
policies, the dramatic shift that we
have seen in the United States's
approach to key industries cannot be
overstated. The fact that we're seeing
it on multiple prongs, this is the
latest that actually is more traditional
in terms of taking a page out of an
industrial type of policy where you
invest directly in companies akin to
what we saw in 2009 to resurrect GM and
Ford. What I think is notable this time,
it's not coming on the heels of crisis.
is coming on the heels of an
anticipation of a structural shift going
forward and national security concerns.
>> National security precisely. And
sometimes the free market won't support
your national security ambitions and you
have to step in. This is what ultimately
they're trying to do here with Intel.
Get them to domestically produce things
that other companies may be won't be
willing to even with massive tariffs.
>> Right now the idea of being a foundry,
the idea of producing chips is something
that doesn't make money that takes a
long time for a long long long while.
And this is the reason why the
government is sort of understanding
Intel's point if they want to if the
government wants them to be a foundry, a
developer, a chip builder. They need to
provide some of the resources and that
seems to be what's on t on the table.
>> Stock is up again this morning by 1.7%
in the pre-market. Here's the latest on
India. The Indian Prime Minister
Narendra Modi denouncing US tariff
policy saying in a speech that global
economic selfishness is increasing day
by day. Modi urging citizens to strive
for self-sufficiency after the US
imposed a 50% tariff on the country.
>> So we haven't seen the retaliatory
tariffs that a lot of people had
expected. But we do see an increasing
shift at least in rhetoric around the
world to global self-sufficiency. We're
just talking about the United States and
sort of key sectors to be
self-sufficient in. How much has this
become an increasing national security
uh call around the world as at a time
when you can understand the economic
warfare that can be waged? I just wonder
longerstanding how much this does shift
domestic policies around the world and
sort of the fracturing of some of the
trade lines. This to me is actually
really interesting.
>> I find that phrase interesting, economic
selfishness. What about economic
hypocrisy? Have you ever seen the
tariffs on some of the goods going into
India on phones on autos? On autos, the
last time I looked, I think we're
looking like 60 70% and up for certain
autos.
>> Consistency isn't necessarily what a lot
of people are looking for. I agree with
you. I think that you could make this
argument in a lot of ways which is the
reason why you even heard Europeans come
around to say leveling the playing field
when it came to negotiating tariffs with
the United States. Clearly uh Modi is
taking a different point. Part of this
was a very political speech though. So
he's catering to a population. So there
is definitely a very political undertone
to everything that he said even with
respect to immigration from Bangladesh
with respect to the relationship with
Pakistan. But going forward, I just
think it's going to be really
interesting to see how some of these
countries pivot to more domestic types
of industrial policy as well in order to
protect themselves against this type of
incursion.
>> Everybody's got their own domestic
concerns. That's the latest on India and
Narendra Modi. Here's the latest on the
Federal Reserve. Presidents Tom Barkin,
Alberta Muslim signaled major policy
reductions might not be warranted.
Barkin saying underlying consumer
dynamics feel healthy. Muslim saying a
50 basis point rate cut might not be
supported by economic conditions.
>> So St. Louis Fed President Musulam
saying he just isn't necessarily sure
which way things are going to break, not
necessarily going to the 50 basis
points, reiterating what we heard from
Mary Dailyy. Tom Barkin was actually
more interesting to me because really it
spotlights the retail sales that we're
going to get in about 55 minutes time.
The idea if you get robust retail sales,
is that a reason for the Fed not to cut
rates? Suddenly, are we looking at
different data points to try to give
those tea leaves ahead of this
monumental speech next week, which we'll
be in Jackson Hole, discussing uh and
and maybe giving a sense of what's to
come in the fall.
>> I'm not sure if the whole decision on
September should hinge on one data
point, that data point being retail
sales, but we'll find out, I guess, in
54 minutes.
>> Come on. Come on. Help me drum it up.
August. Let's go.
>> Thank you.
>> 8:30 Eastern time for US retail sales.
It's an important data point. It's uh
one of the few ones we have left going
into the September meeting. Let's stick
with the Federal Reserve. President
Donald Trump narrowing his choices to
replace Fed chair J Pal to three or four
names, saying he'll announce his nominee
a little earlier than initially
expected. Joining us now is the former
economic adviser to President George W.
Bush, Mark Sumlin. Mark, of course, your
name has been in the mix as well over
the past week or so. Welcome to the
program. Let's just start with the base
case, the case for rate reductions.
Mark, what do you think the strongest
case is right now?
>> Right. I I think the strongest, first of
all, thank you very much for having me.
I think the strongest case is we just
have to mark to market to the new data
that we have. um the data was revised
very strongly um to the downside on the
jobs and that's the most important data
that we have and so it's you know jobs
for May and June only came in at 33,000
combined for those two months and so had
we gotten those in real time it's likely
that the Fed would have cut probably in
um June and July and we know that the
economy barely grew over 1% in the first
half of the year and so a 4.33%
Fed funds rate is just too high for the
econom economy, the economy that we have
right now.
>> Mark, can we stay on that payroll data
because there's been this great debate
on Wall Street and I have to say it's
very divided at the moment. Do you think
that step down in payrolls growth and
clearly you do you think it speaks to a
cyclical turn and not a structural
shift, but can you tell us why you
believe that's the case? What the
distinction is between one versus the
other?
>> AB: Absolutely. I do I do think it's
cyclical. I mean, I think if you step
back, um, like very big picture macro.
We have fiscal tightening this year from
the tariffs. Next year, we're going to
have some fiscal loosening from the tax
bill. Um, and behind all of that, we
have the AI productivity um, gains
starting to take hold for the first
time. And so, so it's a pretty uh, mixed
confusing macro picture. U, but you got
to got to kind of write it out in real
time. And so we just know like before
the data revision um there was a
disconnect between jobs and GDP um and
then after the revision there was no
disconnect. Um jobs got revised down to
reflect what was going on elsewhere in
the economy. Um and it's really
important to mark tomarket to where we
are and not just to say oh well whatever
we had before is still fine for the for
the fed funds right?
>> So let's do some scenario analysis.
Let's say you become the next Fed chair.
Congratulations. And let's say in
September you cut by 50 basis points on
the heels of some of this jobs data and
then you see 10-year yields shoot higher
kin to what we saw last year when the
Fed cuts significantly. What do you do?
>> Yeah. Then I mean then you stop. Um and
so one of the reasons I support the 50
basis point cut right now is that you
have the inversion in the front end of
the curve. Um that's something like 60
basis points last time I looked. And so
you know that you can cut by that amount
without really upsetting things. Um but
the weakest part of the market um or the
economy right now is housing. And so you
can't have the long end go up and that's
your constraint right now. And so the
long end starts to go up on you um you
have to stop cutting. Um you know it's
that it's that simple. You could make
the argument that if the market, if sort
of this collective decision-making body
truly believed that the economy was
significantly weakening, the 10ear would
be significantly lower. Doesn't that
sort of indicate that there is enough
strength to continue at this sort of
pace with these rates? I mean, isn't
that some sort of signal in and of
itself?
>> Well, I mean, I think we go back to
January, a lot of people, a lot of the
best bond traders on the planet thought
the 10-year was going to be at five or
over. Um, and so the fact that we're at
429 instead of five is a reflection of
the of the weaker economy in my mind.
Um, so you know, these things are always
judgment calls. Um, but I think right
now you have the you have the the scope
to cut by 50 basis points. Um, and then
after that that you'd have to look at
the data and you'd have to look at the
markets and you have to look at what's
going on in the real economy and put it
all together.
>> Mark, I'd love to know if you can share
with us what your approach would be if
you had the honor of taking over the top
job at the Federal Reserve. We heard
from the Treasury Secretary who was
sitting around the table with us just a
few days ago on this program and he
talked about the need for foundational
change at the institution. Yeah. What do
you think needs to change?
>> Yeah. I mean, first of all, I I think
that the staff um is all set up wrong.
Um we, you know, to do the job
correctly, you have to understand three
things. There's the data and there's the
economic modeling side and all of the
staff basically that's what they do. And
then you have financial markets. you
need to understand what's going on in
high yield spreads, what's going on in
oil markets, what's going on in bond
markets. Um, and then you have what's
happening in companies and especially
right now, um, at a time of so much
change, you really need to understand
what's going on with AI and productivity
gains in companies. And so I would like
to have the staff completely change
where you know a third of it is doing
economic modeling um type of stuff and
then a third of it is real sectoral
experts. I mean the Fed chairman should
have someone who is an expert in autos,
an expert in retail sales, an expert in
every single thing in house so that
you're really have the have the pace um
and the feel of the economy going on as
well as more market people there um that
understand okay high yields are spreads
are blowing out and this is why we need
to worry why we don't need to worry and
so for me it's less of a um you know I
don't have a problem with the size of
the staff because I think you know the
Fed is so mission critical difficult to
the whole world. I just think they are
doing there's just so much redundancy.
Um, and right now it basically functions
as like a university research department
and I don't know why that's the case.
>> Mark, this actually raises a point that
John's been talking about significantly,
which is how much does that mean a more
active Fed when it comes to balance
sheet management? And it's not just
quantitative easing, but also just the
denominations of where you buy. I mean,
if you treat this more like a markets
operation than a university, how much
more active does that balance sheet
become?
>> Yeah. Um, you know, that's a good
question and and I look, I think that
the balance sheet is an important tool
when you need it. Um, you know, so
definitely in crisis, um, you you you
know, it's something that that's in the
toolbox and it works. Um, I don't think
it works that well or needs to be
continued after after the crisis is
over. And so, you know, if we were
coming out of the pandemic or something,
I would have definitely ended the the QE
sooner rather than later. Um, but there,
you know, they're important questions
right now when we have very high
mortgage spreads about why are we still
selling off NVS. Um, when we have, you
know, 150 basis point spreads that are,
you know, that are hitting the the
housing market right now. Um, so I think
you have to, I mean, you just have to
look at it very objectively about what
is it, what's the impact of the balance
sheet in the real time. Um, and you
know, there are some people who would
love to go back to the old days when
there was no balance sheet. And I think
that's a fine argument if we could
rewind time back to 1995. It's just very
hard to go from where we are now to to
that type of that type of operation.
>> Mark, this was a very thoughtful
conversation and hopefully we can
continue it over the next few months.
Thank you, sir. Mark Sumlin there, the
former economic adviser to President
George W. Bush. Some credible ideas in
the mix from Mark just then.
>> Very much so. in particular. Here's
comments on the long end of the yield
curve. If you cut by 50 basis points and
suddenly you get a spike higher in the
10-year yield. Well, then stop cutting
rates. It's not necessarily to
manipulate the entire world and start
buying 10-year treasuries. This is
something I think the markets could
probably rally behind.
>> No spike this morning. 42926 on a
10-year yield. From New York, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Back with us,
here's Yahira. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The Trump administration is
considering taking a stake in Intel.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
move could support expansion of the
chipmaker's domestic manufacturing,
especially its planned factory hub in
Ohio. The plan comes just days after
President Trump met with Intel at Bhutan
at the White House. Meanwhile, Goldman
Sachs is offering clients a stake in
Millennium Management for a minimum
commitment of $1 million and as much as
20 million. Millennium is seeking buyers
for a 10 to 15% equity stake at a
valuation of about $14 billion according
to documents circulated by the bank.
Millennium's hedge fund has made 10% or
more in all but 9 years since 1990.
And New York City officials announced
the death of a fourth person in
connection to an outbreak of
Legionnaire's disease in Harlem. 99
people have been sickened and 17 have
been hospitalized since late last month.
Health officials say you can get the
disease by breathing in water vapor that
has Legionella bacteria which grows in
warm water. That's true. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next, pairing back rate cut bets.
>> I didn't tell the Fed what to do.
Perhaps because they had bad BLS data in
uh June and July that perhaps perhaps a
50 basis point cut in September was
warranted.
>> Is it warranted? We'll catch up with Ed
Alhuseni of Columbia Thread Needle from
New York. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Beautiful pictures incoming from Joint
Base Andrews of Air Force One just
before it takes off and departs to
Anchorage, Alaska. Just getting
confirmation that the motorcade has left
the White House. The president is on his
way making his way to join base Andrews.
One post from the president so far this
morning. Two words, high stakes. Put
that out on social media in the last
hour or so.
>> A lot of people would agree given the
fact that ultimately this is the first
time, I believe, that Vladimir Putin has
been on US soil since 2015. and
potentially this could set the
groundwork for some sort of further
agreement between Ukraine and Russia.
>> We'll keep tracking that story
throughout this morning. Tracking the
markets as well. Equity futures positive
here by 0.2% on the S&P. Unchanged on
the NASDAQ in the bond market. Yields
bouncing yesterday. Just unwinding some
of that heat in the rate cut bets.
Yields back to about 37317
at the front end of the curve. And
Sylvanas this morning pairing back
interest rate cut bets. I didn't tell
the Fed what to do. Uh what I said was
that to get to a neutral rate on
interest that that would be
approximately 150 basis point cut. I I
did not call for them to get there. The
other thing that I said was that perhaps
because they had bad BLS data in uh June
and July that perhaps perhaps a 50 basis
point cut in September was warranted.
Perhaps here's the latest. Traders
dialing back expectations for a
September rate cut after fresh wholesale
inflation data signal tariffs are
pushing prices higher. Ed Al Husseini of
Columbia Thread Needle writing, "If the
Fed determines that it will look through
higher inflation in the second half of
the year, employment risks dominate and
the case for front-loaded cuts is ready
to go." Ed joins us now for more. Ed,
good morning. Do you think the case for
front-loaded cuts is ready to go right
now?
>> Not quite. Uh, well, as the president
said, it's high stakes. Uh there's a lot
of pressure I think on near-term labor
market data to validate the view that
unemployment is on a trajectory higher
and I think we don't quite have that
data yet at this point. Do you think
that if they were to cut by 25 or 50
basis points next month you could see an
unoring of inflation expectations around
the margins or do you agree with some of
the recent commentators including Mark
Summerland that uh probably the market
would be contained as they're already
pricing that in?
It's really tough to say and I think if
you look back over the course of the
past 12 months, you know, inflation
pricing is a little bit on the high side
right now. It's consistent with some of
the price pressure we've seen come
through in the inflation data over the
course of the past quarter. Um, is it
going to run away if the Fed cuts 25
basis points? Absolutely no. I I think
uh that that that is well in the price
at this stage. Now, if the Fed signals a
much more aggressive easing cycle ahead
of us into data that's strengthening, I
think that's the risk case. That's an
environment in which inflation
expectations run away and uh investors
and tips are going to be quite happy.
>> That really sets up uh the data that
we're going to be getting in about 38
minutes time. How much is it important
to see a retail sales number that
actually is contained or not as strong
as people previously thought to not be a
one-two punch from yesterday's PPI data
that there isn't this sense that there
is enough consumer demand to keep some
of those pricing pressures there and
even some of these companies from
passing along those price increases to
consumers?
>> Yeah, I mean it's an incredibly
difficult question. It's clear that
consumer demand slowed in the first half
of the year relative to where we were
last year. Um, the next couple of retail
sales prints, are they that critical?
Probably no. Um, you know, I don't want
to take the joy out of, you know,
waiting for this print over the next 60
minutes.
>> Come on, work with us, Ed.
>> Um, look, every data point here is
important because we're trying to feel
out, and your previous guest pointed
this out, there's a little bit of a
disconnect between what's going on in
the demand side of the economy and
inflation. And inflation has continued
to run a little bit uncomfortably hot.
There's some price action in services in
particular that is not really consistent
with demand slowing significantly. And I
think we're going to have to close that
disconnect in the second half of the
year for the Fed to have the comfort to
uh cut more aggressively. Ed, let's
build on some of this. Equity markets
are at all-time highs. Credit spreads
are back to about 280 on high yield.
That doesn't scream there's a problem in
this economy. Now, is that a reflection
of what's actually happening in the
economy or a reflection of the rate cuts
people expect to support the economy?
Which one is it?
>> Um, well, I think it's less the rate cut
story at this stage. You know, the
market's not uh pricing in an aggressive
easing cycle. The market's pricing in
rates drifting towards normal about 125
basis points um you know over the next
18 months or so. Uh that's not very
aggressive. um that is consistent with
the economy normalizing. What does that
do for spreads? I think not that much.
To me, the underlying story on the
credit side is one of balance sheet
health and on the equity side is really
extraordinary expectations for returns
on some of the technology like AI and
and you know margins continuing to come
in relatively healthy you know despite a
lot of noise in the background in the
first half of the year. I think those
are all forward-looking expectations.
You can take a look at where risk is
priced right now and I think reasonably
conclude it's a relatively rich and
again that is a conversation that's
slightly separate from the problem the
Fed has to deal with on on inflation and
employment.
>> Ed, we miss you. Hopefully we'll see you
in New York in the studio next time. Ed
Husani there Columbia thread needle.
Thank you sir. Appreciate it. You talked
about margins at the end there with
regards to the equity market. Actually
think one of the standout lines that
came from the Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson in our conversation with him
earlier this week was actually on
margins. I've got it in front of me.
I'll read some of the language to you.
There were some margins that got very
fat during co and now we're seeing a
return to precoid margins. It's quite a
statement about what's happening with
tariffs, what isn't happening with
consumer prices, but what is happening
with margins. And it follows what we're
hearing from the companies themselves,
how much of a tariff related cost
they're going to bear on their bottom
line that they're not passing along in
price increases. We've heard that from
the auto manufacturers. We've heard that
from some consumer brands. I'm thinking
of E.L.F. Beauty for example. This works
with their messaging. I just wonder how
realistic it is going forward if there
is ongoing consumer demand, whether
companies will keep eating it because
they kind of like those margins that
they got during the pandemic. So there's
that push to actually increase prices
and we're seeing that in some of the
commentary.
>> We're also seeing this right now, the
motorcade arriving at Joint Bait Adrews
as the president heads towards Air Force
One to depart to Anchorage, Alaska. Two
words from the president about his
meeting, a face-to-face conversation
with the Russian President Vladimir
Putin and the president of the United
States. The president calling it high
stakes. More on that conversation next
hour.
[Music]
the steady grind, this buy the dip.
There's no questioning the price action.
>> It's certainly a time when you want to
really think about your sector exposure.
There's a bit more weakness and rotation
and churn happening under the surface.
>> It feels like a meltup already. What
we're looking at here is a really,
really solid earnings backdrop for the
S&P 500 that we think persists in the
back half of the year and has legs to
run into 2026.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
The third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
starts right now. Now, the opening bell
about 90 minutes away, 30 minutes away
from some economic data this weekend,
dominated by this story, a face-to-face
conversation between the president of
the United States and the Russian
President Vladimir Putin. Moments ago,
the president of the United States
boarding Air Force One making his way to
Anchorage, Alaska.
>> Yeah, and Marie reporting that he waved
and gets on the plane on Air Force One
without commenting to media. Media very
much anticipating where the stakes
really are right now. who has the
leverage heading into a meeting where
the parameters are fairly wide. The
president seems to want to get a meeting
where Vladimir Zalinski joins them.
Maybe even in Alaska, that's a best case
scenario. Vladimir Putin has very
different goals with maybe a more
wide-ranging economic agreement between
Russia and the United States.
>> Look at who's on board this plane with
the president of the United States. You
expect Senator Rubio to be there. He's
there. Secretary Besson, Secretary
Lutnik. Look, this is going to be a
conversation that's more than just about
foreign policy. is going to be about
economics.
>> There's a lot of potential ways to
interpret this and we've heard people on
this show interpret it in different
ways. One of them could be discussing
sanctions on places like Brazil, on
places like India, some of the clientele
of Russia. How much is that going to be
part of the conversation? There's
another way of interpreting this too,
which is the carrot that President Trump
could be offering also as a part of this
could include some sort of new economic
arrangement between US and Russia. We'll
keep track of that story for you
throughout the weekend. Amarie's on the
ground. We'll catch up with her in about
50 minutes time. So, look out for that.
Mentioned retail sales a few times. 8:30
Eastern time for that next data point.
Just a week away from Chairman Pow
delivering his speech at Jackson Hole.
>> Yeah, you keep raising this point and
it's a really important point. How much
information do they really have to be
able to make any conclusive shifts in
economic policy, monetary policy given
some of the different interpretations I
should just say, of the data? Yesterday
we got PPI data, producer prices that
came in significantly hotter than
expected. People shrugged it off and
said, "Oh, it's market prices that have
been inflated. Oh, it's just a couple of
other of inputs that aren't necessarily
put into core PCE." Nonetheless, do you
see a hot retail sales print as
potentially giving a sense of just how
much momentum there is in the underlying
economy? Tom Barkin actually came out
and indicated that was something he'd be
watching. So, I think it actually does
have importance regardless of what Edal
Husini had to say. Yes, you tell him.
The date is 27 minutes away.
>> It's important.
>> It's important. Equity futures right now
in the S&P positive by a tenth of 1%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Emily Bowok Hill of Bows Capital
Partners as stocks look for a fourth day
of gains. Luke Tilly of Wilmington Trust
reacting to the latest US retail sales
data and Binky China of Deutsche Bank on
whether market moves are justified or
quite simply overly optimistic. We begin
this out with stock study ahead of the
latest read on the US consumer. Emily
Basso Hill of Bassoc Capital writing,
"Until the tariff impacts begin to show
more in the inflation data or in
consumer demand, the market's upward
trend is likely to continue." Emily
joins us now for more. Emily, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's great to see you in person. Let's
talk about the data so far. What's it
telling you about where we are and
what's your judgment about where we'll
be in the months to come? I think the
PPI data that came out this week was
concerning and I think what that shows
us is that inflation is coursing through
the economy now even if consumers have
not felt it yet. So this has put the Fed
into a tough spot obviously and we've
seen the chances of a rate 50 point a 50
basis point rate cut drop pretty
substantially.
Uh I am seeing more and more parallels
to the 1970s you know and people have
been talking about that quite a bit but
the parallels are growing you know and
at that time we had an external supply
shock which previously differentiated
this period from the 70s but now we also
have an external supply shock you know a
trade war is a supply shock uh and and
so you know this is not the trade
embargo of 73 or the Iranian revolution
but that's the backdrop then we have a
president who's plac you know who's
placing enormous pressure on the Fed
chair. Same thing happened with Arthur
Burns and Arthur Burns as we all know
finally caved and it did not end well.
And the third thing is that Nixon took
the US off the gold standard in 1972 and
that forced the dollar down and we're
seeing a similar decline in the dollar
which as we all know is inflationary to
US consumers. So, I'm becoming
increasingly concerned, and I think
probably the Fed board members and the
chair are as well. They don't want to
make that mistake, that same mistake.
>> I'm not sure how you said all that
without saying stagflation.
>> Oh, well, but you did. So, let's talk.
>> You don't want to say make the same
mistake and end up with stagflation.
Staglation good for the smell of
stagflation
>> is increasing. Let's just put it that
way.
>> Is that good for markets at alltime
highs right now? Stagflation is a very
bad scenario for markets generally and
so it's not something that anyone wants
and quite frankly the market at this
point while it has very substantial
upward momentum I would argue that a
substantial part of that upward momentum
is coming from retail traders retail
trading volume now often reaches about
25% of volume 5 to 10 years ago that was
12%. Right? And so on the 3rd of April,
for example, that first week, we saw
$4.7 billion dollar of purchases by
retail traders in the market. And what
ended up happening was that professional
traders and money, you know, money
managers really had no choice but to
jump on board given all of that forward
momentum. And many of these retail
traders, feel free to push back because
I there is some evidence for this, but I
would argue that a substantial
percentage of those retail traders skew
male and younger. And I think people are
allowing their political and cultural
beliefs to drive their investment
decisions far more than they were 5 to
10 years ago.
>> I'll leave uh that there. I'm not going
to push back or go further with it, but
it does raise a question that if you
believe that the economic circumstances
are vastly different to some of the
price action, why are you still
constructive?
>> I'm constructive because I think this
momentum is real. And I think that
frankly again there's a substantial
contingent in the market that wasn't
there five years ago that's putting a
floor
that you it's the buy the dip mentality
that is that is I think quite embedded
now. I you know it will take some
significantly bad news to derail the
kind of momentum that we're seeing and
we could get that in the retail numbers.
you know, I think it will disappoint the
market if we don't see a rate cut in
September. Uh, but I yeah, I think the
market is certainly overvalued, but
there still are pockets of value there.
>> So, you said uh it would be
disappointing to the market if we don't
get a rate cut, meaning that a bad
retail sales number would be a good
retail sales number that would indicate
some sort of momentum or purchasing,
right? I mean, that's sort of the
indication there. I am just curious to
dig into this whole idea of sustained
inflation and PPI being really negative.
Some people have said well companies are
absorbing it. This is something even
Scott Besson told John and Anne Marie
that this is actually a normalization of
uh margins for a lot of corporations and
we have seen them eat it without passing
it along to consumers. How does it
change? How does it pivot to uh going
into consumer prices in a more sustained
way if these companies seem to be
indicating that they're more concerned
about maintaining market share than they
are about maintaining their profit
margins?
Well, we always thought that the tariff
impact on inflation was going to be a 3Q
and a 4Q story, but either the tariffs
are going to shrink margin margins,
which is not, you know, not good for the
markets, or it's going to end up in
consumer prices. And quite frankly, it's
probably going to be a little bit of
both. So, and and when I say that
there's strong momentum behind the
market, I'm not saying we're not going
to have a typical seasonal correction of
5 to 10%. I just mean that there's a in
my opinion a floor under the market. One
of the things that I keep saying to
clients because clients ask me, "How is
it possible that the market is still
going up when we just passed this tax
legislation which is going to add
trillions of dollars to the national
debt? We we have attacks on the rule of
law. We've got, you know, the firing of
the commissioner for the Bureau of Labor
Statistics." And they'll they'll list
these these negatives. The market
doesn't care about what's going to
happen over 3 to five years. The market
is a powerful discounting mechanism that
goes out that's looking out six to nine
months. And on the 6 to9 months basis,
the news is generally good. Earnings
were positive. No, there was a very low
bar, but this legislation is probably
going to add about half a percent per
growth. AI, the boost to productivity is
real, and it's masking a lot of these
underlying issues. That doesn't mean
that there aren't some fundamental
problems being created that we're going
to see beyond the time frame that the
market is discounting.
>> There are economic risks and there are
market risks. And if you look at the
biggest weights on the S&P 500 and track
their earnings, earnings have been
tremendous for the likes of Microsoft
and others.
>> Yeah, you're talking about the AI story,
the overlay that makes it very difficult
to make some sort of macro call on a US
market that is much more secularly
driven at this point. Record highs again
this morning, up a tenth of 1%. Emily,
good to see you.
>> Good to see you, too.
>> Thank you for dropping by the studio.
Thank you, Emily Bowskill there of
Bowsog Capital Partners with an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over
to Yhara for more. Hey yara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump is in
route to Anchorage, Alaska for a meeting
with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Among those accompanying Trump are
Secretary of State Marco Rubio, as well
as Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik and
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant. Trump
and Putin are set to meet at 3:30 p.m.
Eastern, and the two may hold a press
conference after the meeting. Meanwhile,
shares of United Health are surging 10%
in the pre-market following news that
Warren Buffett's Bergkshire Hathaway
among others took a $1.6 billion stake
in the company. According to a
regulatory filing, Berkshire bought 5
million shares of the health insurer in
the last quarter.
and tropical storm Aaron could soon
become the first hurricane of the
Atlantic season. Eric Aaron strengthened
into a tropical storm overnight and is
expected to continue gaining strength
over the next few days. The storm could
become a category 4 hurricane by Sunday
and thankfully it is forecast to stay
away from the US. We shall see. That's
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes. Up next, the morning
calls plus the rain Hutchinson of Bank
of America with retail sales just around
the corner. That data drops in about 20
minutes time from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
I think the economy is slower than
people think. We're seeing pockets of
inflation. So, I I feel there's pressure
on the consumer. I think the global
economy is slowing, right? Everyone's
trying to figure out what to do with
tariffs. And, you know, we're all trying
to look for these signs of tariffs. I
think we're basically we're still in the
early first inning on tariffs, right?
We've only just seen them come in place.
It's going to take months, if not
quarters, maybe a full year before the
impacts are fully felt, but I think
you're starting to see those signs.
Peter Sher of Academy Securities looking
for more signs of some kind of economic
impact from policy over the last few
months. Retail sales 15 minutes away.
Here's the stage. This is how it's set.
Your scores look like this. Secondary
futures at the moment positive by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P down a tenth on
the NASDAQ. Muted price action there in
the bond market. 2-year, 10-year,
30-year shaping up as follows. At the
front end of the curve, bouncing off
multimonth lows at the front end
yesterday following PPI. Yields this
morning just about unchanged. the 2-year
37275.
That's the price action. Here are your
morning calls. First up, HSBC
downgrading Cisco to hold, seeing
strength in AI, offsetting weakness
elsewhere. Your second call from Steve
cutting its price target on applied
materials to 180, citing the company's
weaker than expected Q4 outlook. And
finally, Bank of America downgrading
target to underperform, pointing to
margin risk due to slowing digital sales
growth. Sticking with the consumer, US
retail sales just around the corner with
the potential impact of tariffs very
much in focus. Bloomberg's Mike McKe has
more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, Lisa asked a
key question a little bit ago when she
said, "Where's the bad news?" Uh, the
markets are waiting for bad news because
it would be good news for them if the
Fed cuts interest rates. Today, we don't
know. Uh, retail sales are the headline
number this morning and they're not
expected to be changed on a headline
level. uh 610 of a percent gain, same as
last month. Retail sales control maybe
tick down a little bit. That's where you
take out gasoline, uh home building
supplies, uh and uh automobiles, and
that's supposed to go down just a little
bit, but it would still imply a decent
uh month in the month of July. The
biggest wild card in July is that it was
Prime Day's month for Amazon and Walmart
and Target and a lot of big retailers
who cut prices and retail sales are
measured in dollar sales. So, we're
going to have to take a look at that.
The other big number this morning to
look at is import prices, not so much
the headline, which is also expected to
be unchanged, but X petroleum takeout
oil prices and did we see prices go
down? If prices went down, it's a
suggestion that maybe some of the
exporters are taking some of the hit to
uh their products from the uh tariffs in
the United States. If export prices stay
the same or go up, it would be the other
case. So uh there's a lot to look at
here. And one thing I might mention is
that you also ask the question of
whether we are seeing any kind of
impacts yet or whether they're still to
come. Barkley's out with a note that
says one of the reasons prices have not
risen because of tariffs is because so
many tariffs uh so many products are
exempt from tariffs, especially stuff
coming in from Canada and Mexico and
because companies are shifting supply
chains and getting things from lower
tariff countries. We'll see if that
plays out.
>> Mike McKe, looking forward to your
breakdown in about 13 minutes time. Not
sure where Mike is now. Is he making his
way to Jackson? I think he's probably
already wearing his hat and riding on
horses
>> on his way a week early.
>> I think he's riding on a horse there to
really understand the western way.
>> Okay. He was talking about tariff
inventory and pre-tariff inventory. Gene
Srooka, we talked about this yesterday
together. It's been a roller coaster
ride all year long. Ride's not over yet.
The data coming out of the port of Los
Angeles seeing the highest container
volume in its 117year history just last
month. Just how much pre-tariff
inventory are we working through here?
>> Yeah, just adding to the complications.
You have pre-tariff inventory, the fact
that people hoarded goods ahead of
expected tariffs, which led to pretty
big pops in terms of some of the import
numbers that we've seen over the past
few months. But then there also are all
of these agreements that are still in
place with some of the contractors that
have kept prices from rising as much as
they otherwise would. You add all this
soup together, it's very hard to come up
with any kind of conclusion.
>> Super complex stuff. Let's stick on the
story. Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of
America looking ahead to retail earnings
kicking off next week writing this.
After a volatile quarter, we expect off
prices to post sales growth at or above
guidance. Lorraine joins us now for
more. Lorraine, welcome to the program.
I'm sure you were following that quick
conversation there. We'd love to get
your thoughts on how some of these
companies have been managing their
inventory over the past few months.
>> Sure. Good morning. Um it's you many of
them have really started to take a real
stake in inventory ahead of the tariffs
to try to derisk themselves as the
tariffs hit and changed and we think
that that has really helped the margin
picture certainly for the back to school
selling season. I would say one of the
most interesting data points I've seen
uh for back to school with our
proprietary BAC credit and debit card
data showed that sales in the last
couple weeks of July really started to
surge. And that's interesting because
you that's given on a dollar basis. So
that would include any price increases
that came in July. And it implies that
the back to school selling season is
actually off to a pretty strong start.
So if you're looking at my retailers in
particular, when do they want to really
perform well? It's those last couple
weeks of July when people are first
going out and trying to buy their back
to school items where they don't want to
outperform is later in the season when
everything goes on clearance. So I think
we're seeing some initial signs of
strength after a pretty rough May and
June.
>> What can we interpret from that,
Lorraine? Is this that a lot of
companies are offering really good
discounts like Mike was just talking
about with Amazon Prime and Walmart
Prime and all these special days or is
this uh really just a robust demand
backdrop that's going to sustain some of
this momentum heading into the fall?
>> Yeah, I mean I I would say it's it's two
things. First is when the consumer is
feeling a little bit stretched, they
tend to event shop. So they really need
back to school products. they'll go buy
those. They may not buy things that are
discretionary or sort of off the cuff,
but they will buy during events. Second
thing is we're seeing particular
strengths from the off-pric retailers.
So that tells us that consumers are
really looking for value. So maybe other
areas of their budget are are rising in
price where they need to save money is
on the more discretionary pieces like
apparel and accessories and they're
using retailers like TJ Maxx, Ros
Stores, Burlington as a way to get
better value for their dollar. One thing
that Scott Besson told John and Amarie
this week was that a lot of profit
margins are just normalizing at
companies and that there was this sort
of pop in the post-pandemic period that
now is coming in. Do you expect this to
be the new normal that companies to the
extent that there are any tariff
ramifications will just eat them on
their bottom line and not pass them
along to consumers?
You know, I think it's it's it's a
difficult game to play if you're a
retailer because the consumer has a lot
of choices. So, historically, apparel
prices have been deflationary. As
consumers trade down and trade down and
find better value, I think for some
brands with high heat, with higher price
points, dealing with wealthier
customers, we do think that they will be
able to raise prices on a modest basis
to offset tariffs. I'm a little more
worried about the lower-end retailers
where the consumers already stretched.
It's going to be hard for them to pass
that through and in some cases they need
may need to take some of the margin.
>> Lorraine Hutchinson there of Bank of
America. I think we might have lost the
connection with her just then. So, we
can build on some of this. I'm unsure if
this falls under her coverage, but
ultimately McDonald's, Sweet Green,
Chipotle have corned cautioned on some
weakness with a consumer over the past
few weeks. Don't know if we'll see that
retail sales at 8:30 Eastern time, but
ultimately we might see with the
retailers next week.
>> Yeah. And how smart have the retailers
gotten in terms of catering to some of
the uh lower income consumers by
offering discounts, etc. Then to Mike's
point, how does that show up? Let's say
the number of sales has increased, but
the total volume, the total dollar price
hasn't necessarily as much. a lot of
factors to look in, but if you take a
step back and we've heard this from Bank
of America and we heard this from Adicha
Bahave uh earlier this week, it has been
resilient. You see credit card operators
continue to say spending is there and it
is across the income spectrum. So, at
what point do you see the weakness that
would really justify some of the rate
cuts that people are looking for?
>> Not seeing too many signs of that just
yet. Mike McKe still with us. Mike, we
just wanted confirmation. Where in the
world are you and have you already made
your way to Jackson Hole?
I am in Jackson, Wyoming ahead of time.
There is another conference ahead of the
Fed conference that we'll be covering uh
for you on Monday and uh we're looking
forward to that. Also doing a story for
Wall Street week you'll watch next
Friday on Jackson, the town and its
economy.
>> Looking forward to that. Mike, before
you go, Lisa's been talking about retail
sales all morning. Oh yeah. Typically we
talk about CPI and then payrolls being a
big factor in the decision this Federal
Reserve's got to make. Is this a missing
piece of the puddle for this Federal
Reserve? Just how important is it?
>> It's a small missing piece for the uh
Fed. It's probably a little bit more so
for the markets because they need to
react to something, but the Fed knows
that these numbers are heavily revised.
We'll take a look at what we got in June
after today's revision as well. So, it
may not be as decisive as some of the
others, especially the CPI and the jobs
report.
>> Mike McKe, looking forward to your
breakdown. Mike McKe is going to be with
us in about 7 minutes time. Already made
his way to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. As we
break down the retail sales data for you
and look ahead to that speech from the
chairman of the Federal Reserve, which
most people always anticipate to be the
sort of preamble to what we might see
from the Federal Reserve itself more
broadly in the following month.
>> The shorter it is, this is just sort of
the cheat sheet. The shorter that is it
is, the more shocking it'll be. That's
been our experience. Remember the pain
speech? We were expecting him to go on
for 45 minutes, 8 minutes, that's it.
there will be pain and then he exited
the stage and that really created a big
market reaction. Does he have the same
sort of conviction this time around
given that I'm trying to make retail
sales great again and that we really
don't have the data to really support
any kind of conviction whatsoever.
>> We all remember the pain speech. Well,
we were both there. Yes.
>> And then there wasn't any. Correct.
Remember that. And then last year they
were worried about the labor market.
Turned out to be a head fake. This is
the debate for me right now. It's
actually not so much on inflation and
this tariff pass through. It's about
what's happening with this labor market.
We've clearly had a step down in
payrolls. We can all see it in the data.
We've seen the revisions. Then we're all
agreeing on what we can see, see the
numbers ourselves. What does it mean?
That's where there's real debate, real
divided debate on Wall Street.
>> And there's an additional debate that
the Fed has to have, which is what is
their approach at a time where there's
so many different ways to uh take the
economic story. I'm still thinking about
what Mark Summerland said to basically
treat the Fed policy as something more
of market timing or a hedge fund or
something like that where you're gauging
all the different instruments and
getting a sense of what the market is
telling you some you know the bond
market speaks listen to it I mean at a
certain point how much is that the road
forward if there is a lack of clarity on
the economic side
>> the data speaks in about 5 minutes time
US retail sales the latest read on the
US consumer coming up Mike McKe will
break down the data we'll catch up with
Luke Tilly of Wilmington Trust from New
York City. Retail sales 5 minutes away.
[Music]
Economics data moments away. About 20
seconds away, retail sales just around a
corner. Mike McKini is going to break
that down for you. Your scores an hour
away from the opening battle are shaping
up as follows. Positive a tenth of 1% on
the S&P, down about a tenth on the
NASDAQ. Basically where we've been all
morning. Bit snoozy this Friday morning.
That could change in a few seconds time.
In the bond market, just look at the
front end of the curve. Yields bouncing
yesterday, coming back down by a single
basis point this morning. 372. With that
economic data, let's cross over to Mike
McKe. Good morning,
>> Mike. Ben.
>> Well, looks like uh we've got a
reasonably good but slightly
disappointing retail sales number.
Headline number comes in at 510 of a
percent. Last month was 6/10 unrevised
and the forecast was for 610. Uh for
autos, uh X autos, we're at 3/10, which
is what was forecast. That's down from
an unrevised 510 last month. The control
group that everybody cares about, of
course, is up 510, same as last month.
That would be good news. It shows
Americans are still out there spending.
Of course, I'm saying good news and the
markets probably aren't liking it. Uh
import prices up 4/10en of a percent and
ex petroleum up 3/10. That would suggest
one thing. Importers are not bearing the
brunt of Trump's tariffs, Trump's import
taxes. They are actually keeping prices
steady and not cutting them. One other
number out uh the Empire manufacturing
number increases to 11.9 from 5.5 and
I'm sorry to take up too much time but I
got to give you the revisions here on
retail sales just out in June 9/10 up
from 610. So you add that to the 510 and
we have had a pretty strong summer for
consumers for the control group 8/10
instead of the initially reported 510 in
June. So another 510 there and company
Americans are still spending money. The
tariffs have not stopped them and this
is not going to be a sign that the Fed
is anxious to cut interest rates.
>> M thank you sir. It certainly won't
change the debate too much but we're
seeing some muted price action off the
back of it. Yields back up to about 430
on 10 now up a single basis point almost
two basis points higher on the session.
At the front end of the curve down about
a basis point now up about a basis
point. So let's call it 374 on twos. In
equities, not much movement off the back
of this. Still positive on the day by a
tenth of 1%. But again, it's a little
bit more information. Just another data
point that suggests there shouldn't be a
rush to reduce interest rates by 50
basis points.
>> Yeah, just removing the possibility of a
50 basis point rate cut. A little bit
more in market expectations. And I
emphasize a little bit more. When you
look at Fed funds futures right now
almost a fully pricing for a 25 basis
point cut next month. It seems like
there is a coalescing around the idea
that the economy is robust but there is
concern around the labor market. The Fed
could probably afford to shift down.
This definitely speaks to the robust
side of the picture.
>> Tracking two stories simultaneously at
the moment. One is the economic data at
the same time the president is on Air
Force One talking to reporters and our
team's breaking the headlines for us as
he speaks. This stood out for me on the
talk set to take place between him and
the Russian leader in Anchorage, Alaska,
that Ukraine wants to negotiate. And the
following headline, the territorial
swaps will be discussed.
>> This was something that originally we
had heard wouldn't be discussed, that
they wouldn't really discuss which land
would go where because ultimately that
had to be uh something that Ukraine
discussed. this coming from President
Trump that he may provide security
guarantees to Ukraine with the European
Union, not NATO. So maybe a way to get
around the red line that Vladimir Putin
has put out there about NATO membership
for Ukraine. Either way, it seems like
there are things being discussed that
maybe people weren't expecting to be
discussed in this particular meeting.
>> So this is the setup then for the next
30 minutes or so. We'll come back to
that story in just a moment. Amarie's in
Anchorage, Alaska already. We'll get her
thoughts on this story in about 15
minutes from now. I want to turn back to
the data. Mike McKe just broke it down.
Mike, I know you've just had a second
read of things. What jumps out for you
now?
>> Well, we've had a sort of bounce back in
some categories. Motor vehicles and
parts uh dropped down a little bit uh to
1.6% but that was better than
anticipated. Furniture and home stores
uh 1.4%. That's down from 5.1%. But then
uh we have had a a better uh month for
clothing and clothing accessories. Looks
like back to school got started early,
up 7/10en of a percent. Uh sporting
goods up 8/10. General merchandise
stores up 4/10. Uh the only thing that
really drops is miscellaneous retailers
are down 1.7% and food services and
drinking places down 4/10. Now that's a
kind of a uh contingent category of
retail sales that shows whether or not
people have some disposable income, but
they were spending in other places.
Gasoline prices were up only 7/10. They
were down 2.9%. So that's one reason uh
that we see a rebound in overall sales.
>> Mike McKe. Thank you, sir. Michael McKe
breaking that data down for you. Luke
Tilly joins us now of Wilmington Trust.
Luke, welcome back to the program, sir.
I understand you're looking for rates in
September, October, December. What
supports that view at the moment?
>> Yeah, I think that what we've seen is
essentially a weakening of the consumer
and also a slowdown in capex. Probably
more important than that is that
inflation is incredibly uh tame over the
past six months. Core CPI has basically
been at the Fed's target. And I really
think it comes down to the fact that the
tariffs are driving up the prices of
goods. Uh but you're getting a lot
weaker spending. So as we look through
this morning's numbers on retail sales,
which I agree are quite positive, the
most important thing here is that they
are nominal and they also are just
spending on goods. So to the extent that
tariffs are driving up the prices of
these goods, the more important numbers
that we're going to get in a couple of
weeks is when we see these deflated uh
in the PCE numbers, but also see how
spending on services is going. Uh
because our position all year has been
as you get these price increases on
tariffs and it's going to drive up uh
the nominal value of retail sales to
some degree, you're going to see weaker
spending on services. That's what we've
seen all year and I think that's what
we'll continue to see and that leads to
those Fed decisions in part.
>> Luke, you put the same data in front of
five different people. and you get five
different opinions. We've heard that all
morning. Some people saying that what we
just saw actually suggests a really
robust backdrop. Other people like
yourself saying this is just reflecting
the inflation uh that you're seeing out
there. What data could you see before
the next Fed meeting that would make you
change your mind? That would focus you
more on the strength side than the
weakness?
>> Yeah. Well, I'm an economist, so if you
get five of us in a room, you're going
to get at least eight different
opinions. But uh I'm going to stick with
mine on this, which is that we need to
see what I was talking about that PCE
spending report at the end of the month
because that will have this same
spending on goods data, but it's going
to be deflated for all of the inflation
effects and then also uh the spending on
services and in real terms. So on a
month-to-month basis, these things can
be very volatile and obviously the
markets are going to move with that. But
let's take a step back and let's take a
look at the broader economy over a
longer time period and also what the Fed
is looking at. Uh for this year,
consumer spending slowed in real terms
from 3% at the end of last year. It's
been cut in half to about 1.5%
annualized for the first six months. And
I think we're going to continue to see
that slowdown. Uh consumers are facing
those higher tariffs on goods. So
they've been cutting back on services
spending. And we're also going to
continue to see, I think, slower jobs
data. And uh that is also going to lead
to slower spending. And that is the the
broader picture that we need to look at.
So I again I agree that this morning's
retail sales numbers are positive but
they don't paint the entire picture.
When we look at the entire picture, we
see a slowing economy with very little
inflation pressure. Uh and that brings
us to the conclusion that the Fed is
likely to be cutting rates.
>> We've been asking this question and John
was asking it yesterday. Can you have
your cake and eat it too? is something
that the Fed can offset with rate cuts
and allow the economy to keep chugging
along, which seems to be what people are
pricing in across all instruments.
>> Yeah, I think so because we don't really
have a fundamental problem with the
economy right now. It's not like you've
got massively overvalued housing or a
tech bubble or something like that. You
had an economy that was clicking along
last year. It's been hit with a fairly
substantial tax hike in the form of
tariffs and more importantly that
changes the cost structure for
companies. Uh so that comes at a time
where you're just going to get basically
a little bit of a slowdown and a stumble
uh for the economy as firms adjust both
to the higher tariffs and then also to
some of that uncertainty. So we see the
economy flattening out here in the
second half of the year. Uh but there's
nothing really fundamentally wrong
that's going to drive it into a deep
downturn, but it's enough that it should
have the Federal Reserve cutting rates.
You don't need restrictive rates when
the economy is so slow. And then as I
said before, you don't have inflation
pressure when we look at inflation,
especially if you look at the CPI and
just exclude that pesky shelter
component that's drifting down. Uh the
CPI X shelter has been below the Fed's
target for almost two years now.
Consumers are not out there spending in
a way that's going to drive up prices.
Uh and to the extent they've been hit by
tariffs, they're just going to take away
on the services side. So we don't have
an inflation problem. Uh, and if you've
got unemployment rate near neutral, if
you've got inflation near neutral, well,
then rates should be right around
neutral.
>> Luke, I want to pick up on the language
you're using because you're a very
deliberate purposeful guy. You keep
talking about neutral and restrictive.
And I think this is important. Getting
down to three if you believe three is
neutral means that you can cut 150
without really talking about getting
accommodative. Now, Luke, I don't think
that's too controversial, but what do
you think the range of neutral is on the
committee at the moment? And how close
will we be to a much bigger debate
further down the road?
>> I think the neutral is pretty close to
what we think it is. We think 275 to 3%.
Uh the committee is right around there,
but it's obviously up for debate and it
could be changing. I think the more
important question is how quickly do you
get there? The Fed and everybody on that
committee knows that their movements
have a lot of power and their words have
a lot of power. So they would want to be
communicating uh getting to that point
on a slower basis. And we know that
their communications can have just as
big of an impact on uh rates and
financial conditions. When they started
to hike in the beginning of uh I guess
2023, they had already been talking up
rates for three or four months ahead of
that. They had already doubled the
two-year yield well ahead of that first
hike. Uh and they can do that on the
downside too without actually dropping
rates by 150 basis points. They can just
start pointing towards it and it would
ease financial conditions in the same
way without being a real shock to
markets.
>> Luke, appreciate your time. Luke Tilly
there of Wilmington Trust looking for
rate cuts in September, October,
December, then again at the first three
meetings in 26.
>> You know, I wonder as I was listening to
him talk, I'm like, well, he could be a
Fed candidate, too, because I'm sure
that a lot of what he just said would
appeal to the administration. Right now,
it seems like people are seeing the
inflation prints as disinflationary or
not necessarily indicating some sort of
longer term shift. I keep going back to
what Steve Rashido said, excluding
certain items. How long can we do that
before we're sort of ignoring some of
the inflationary pressures that at least
the headline numbers seem to be
suggesting?
>> Steve is living in your head rentree,
isn't he, at the moment.
>> Well, I just think that it's so
different from what everybody else is
saying and I actually value a sort of
contrarian take and I think it's worth
thinking about.
>> I'm enjoying the debate at the moment,
how divided things actually are.
>> Well, it's a reason why I wonder if
economics is so divided, is taking a
market-based approach the more effective
way of going about it. I mean, honestly,
this is sort of the level of uh of of
rethink that is going on right now.
>> I just don't think it's that
controversial, this call for 150 basis
points from the administration. Now,
maybe you think it's controversial that
it's coming from the Treasury Secretary,
but you've just heard it there. Most
people's opinion of neutral at the
moment is three. Maybe you think it's
climbing, I don't know, but most people
believe it's three. And if you believe
we're not in a position where we need to
be restrictive anymore, then starting
that journey back towards three might
make sense. Now, I say that as I sit
here and say I still think the jury's
out on the data, and you've got to wait
a number of months to see which way this
breaks, but I don't think there's too
much daylight between some of the things
I'm hearing at the moment when people
say 150 and then they sort of throw
their hands up and they're running to be
the Fed chair. I don't think they are.
The Fed in their forecast has got three
as the long-term neutral dot, right?
>> The political pressure has muddied the
very real economic debate that is
happening and that is happening with a
lot of intellectual rigor in a lot of
places. And I think that that is really
the core of what you're getting at which
is this is a real debate and I think
that the politics of it has sort of
shaded it in another tone.
>> I agree. The market open just around the
corner. We are positive by a tenth of 1%
on the S&P. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahihara. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Here's a recap of the latest
economic data. Retail sales came in
slightly below estimates rising a half a
percent versus expectations of 610 of
1%. Still, it's a sign consumers keep
spending despite price increases. They
stepped up their spending on cars and
took advantage of online promotions with
the likes of Amazon and Walmart having
major sales. Meanwhile, we've been
talking about this story all morning.
The Trump administration is considering
taking a stake in Intel. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg a deal would help
shore up Intel's Planned Factory hub in
Ohio, which has been repeatedly da
delayed. It comes a week after President
Trump had called for the ouster of the
chipmaker CEO Lip Bhutan and then they
had a meeting at the White House. And we
end on some good news. Mortgage rates
are ticking lower for a fourth straight
week and are at their lowest level since
October. According to data from Freddy
Mack, the average rate for a 30-year
fixed loan was 6.58% last week.
Long-term rates haven't been below 6%
since September 2022. And it looks like
we have a ways to go. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Have a good weekend. Up next on
the program, we'll set you up for the
day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
Binky Charter of Deutsche Bank on the
pass through for tariffs and the equity
market. And we'll catch up with Amarie
in Anchorage, Alaska, on a face-to-face
meeting over the weekend between Putin
and Trump.
[Music]
One of the reasons I support the 50
basis point cut right now is that you
have the inversion in the front end of
the curve. Um that's something like 60
basis points last time I looked. And so
you know that you can cut by that amount
without really upsetting things. Right
now you have the you have the the scope
to cut by 50 basis points. Um, and then
after there that you'd have to look at
the data and you'd have to look at the
markets and you have to look at what's
going on in the real economy and put it
all together.
>> That was the former economic adviser to
President Bush. That was Mark
Summerland. He's also in the running to
become the next Fed chair. Looking for a
50 basis point reduction at the next Fed
meeting. The data so far, okay, retail
sales about 20 minutes ago. No drama
there. Equity futures just about
positive on the S&P 500. Still just
about negative on the NASDAQ. No drama
at the index level with some morning
movers. Let's cross over to Danny
Burgerer for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. The biggest loser in the S&P
500 pre-market. Applied materials down
13% earnings yesterday. A tepid forecast
all about weaker sales to China slower
getting licenses to export to China and
large customers pulling back given the
uncertainty. All those comments from the
CEO elsewhere. Uh Roblox the video game
maker also falling quite heavily in the
pre-market trade down 7% late yesterday.
The Louisiana state attorney opening up
a lawsuit against them, saying that
they've created an environment for
exploiting children. TD Cowan writing a
note reaffirming their cell rating
showing it just highlights the
regulatory risk around this company that
has mostly young users and user contract
userdriven content on it. Finally
rounding things out with Intel. The
rally from yesterday, more than 7%
continues that pace this morning up
about 3% after that excellent Bloomberg
scoop that the government is in talks to
potentially take a stake in Intel. All
of that would help build out an Ohio
hub. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Danny Burgerer there with your
movers going into the opening bell. A
stay on the market. Binky Charter of
Deutsche Bank writing the following. It
is clear from company comments that
tariffs were a sizable headwind only for
some and the hit was modest and
significantly lower than previously
feared although it is likely to grow.
Binky joins us now for more. Binky, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. How are things
going to rebalance in the months to
come?
>> Uh I think you know where we are. I
think a very simple way of thinking
about where the S&P 500 is is that we of
course had basically the very very
robust 2023 and 2024 returns. And if you
look at it and if you will pardon me for
using slightly technical expression S&P
500, you know, was for those two years
and really starting a little earlier in
a very very steep trend channel. We were
in round numbers 24% years. That's you
know 24% a year that's 2% a month. It's
very very robust channel. Of course
liberation day threw us way way out of
that channel and we have now recovered
basically to the bottom of that channel
by the first week of July. And really
for the last six or seven weeks we are
crawling along the bottom. So, you know,
bigger picture, if you think about it,
we fell because of the tariffs. We had
this big sell-off and we've now
recovered. So, the question is, you
know, I is it justified or is it just
optimism? But that long drawn out chart
that I just drew for you is just to sort
of focus the mind that actually what the
market's saying is that, you know, we
had the tariffs. uh we all expected them
to have you know pretty big negative
impacts. It's not evident in the growth
data. It's not evident in the inflation
data. Aggregate earnings for the S&P 500
in the second quarter growth actually
accelerated. So it's got the wrong sign
in terms of the negative impact. So is
there a less technical way of saying
this which is that in some ways profit
margins are normalizing what Scott
Bessant was saying to John and Emory
this week that in a sense this is more
normal. You might not get the 24%
returns every year but you'll be able to
adjust and adapt move forward with
something that's a solid game but not
necessarily out of the water.
>> Yeah. So again I would say you know in
terms of the margin issue I mean the
cost accounting way of thinking about
margins is you know is fine but uh does
it really actually hold up? I mean for
the S&P 500 as a whole margins actually
went up and margins are at new high. So
I mean I understand the nice intuitive
narrative. It's just uh it's not in the
facts. Is it difficult to gel what the
economists are saying at the moment to
sort of put that together with what you
see in earnings?
>> I I I I think you know the economist
position is pretty reasonable if you
think about basically you know their
calls for inflation. Take our house
view. I mean we see basically you know
the direct impact of the tariffs as
about two percentage points on core
goods prices. uh and then there's the
indirect impact you know as everything
feeds on each other and that's I would
argue the larger standard error to try
to estimate as and when and how much but
if you focus for a second on the direct
impacts I would argue if you look at
core goods prices we already had half
the pass through that we were looking
for so you know if you're negative and
bearish you can wait for the second half
is going to tip us over into something
or the other but on the face of it why
should it be any different than the
first staff and in fact it might be even
a little bit slower. Um I and we think
it might be a little bit slower because
if you listen to companies I mean
raising pricing is basically the last
resort so to speak number one. Number
two, you know, the directly impacted
companies are about 17% less than 20% of
S&P 500 earnings and five percentage
points of that is Apple and they did
talk about tariffs, but there's lots of
other things going on. Uh they just
dominated basically the impact. So
>> I think this is another way of saying
the economy is not the S&P 500.
>> Uh fair enough.
>> I think a lot of people have said that
again and again, but I think that that's
the conclusion that we have to draw.
Another reminder this morning from Binky
China Deutsa Bank. Binky, it's good to
see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> I know you're taking two weeks off your
birthday, too. So, happy birthday.
>> Enjoy your vacation.
>> Congratulations.
>> Nothing ever happens in August and then
things happen in August. I know
repeatedly. Something's happening this
weekend in Anchorage, Alaska. The
president of the United States in a
face-to-face meeting on American soil
with the Russian leader Vladimir Putin
on the ground. Anmarie. Amarie. Just
moments ago, some headlines breaking
from Air Force One about the president's
approach to these talks.
Yeah, Jonathan, I think two things
really stand out as the president
briefed reporters on his way to Alaska.
One is that territorial swaps will be
discussed, but President Trump is not
going to be the one to make the decision
on that. He said Ukraine will be the one
to make the decision on that. He is here
to bring everyone to the table. Second,
the president said that Vladimir Putin
is bringing over with him a lot of
businessmen. So I am wondering who
exactly is the president talking about.
But the president made clear there will
be no US Russia business deals or
cooperation until this war is wound down
until there is a sessation of
hostilities and a peace agreement. I
think those two um statements from the
president are really important going
into this meeting he has this afternoon
with President Putin.
>> Amie looking forward to reporting. Thank
you. The latest there from Amarie on the
president's approach to these talks from
Friday and potentially through the
weekend.
>> Right now, the market seems to be geared
up for some sort of easing in tensions
between Russia and Ukraine. A lot of
daylight between what's what's going on
right now and getting to a place at the
end of this weekend where that momentum
can get sustained. A lot of people
hoping that this conflict can stop given
the human life that's been at stake.
>> Have you got the cowboy hat ready for
next week?
>> Oh yeah.
>> Lighter note,
>> chaps. Everything. I'm going to go.
Yeah, exactly. I'm going to go to the
rodeo. Exactly. I'm very incredibly
excited. My long underwear for sitting
outside for
>> Look after TK.
>> Yeah, I will. Don't worry.
>> Got some babysitting to do next week.
>> It'll be fun.
>> Enjoy that. And I'm looking forward to
the coverage, guys. Really am. Jackson
Hole next week. Big lineup on Monday.
Steve Chevron of Federated Hermes, Neil
Dutter of Renmack, Jack Manley of JP
Morgan, Claudia S of New Century
Advisers, and a whole lot more. Have a
great weekend, guys, from New York City
this morning. Good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Day eight at the Cincinnati Open. 2023
champion Koko Golf eased into the
quarterfinals with a comfortable victory
over Luchia Bronzetti.
Koko will face another Italian Jasmine
Palini for a spot in the semis. And
don't forget you can watch all the
action live daily on Tennis Channel.
[Music]